Spin-bowler Monty Panesar has earned a recall to England's Test cricket squad for the Ashes series against Australia, due to begin on November 25 in Brisbane.
Panesar, who was part of England's victorious Ashes team in 2009, is named in a 16-strong party after enjoying a successful domestic campaign for Sussex, in the English county championship.
Another player making his England return is Chris Tremlett, who has not played for his country since a match with India in 2007, and was last involved with the international squad on a tour of New Zealand in 2008.
He gets the nod ahead of Yorkshire's Tim Bresnan, who has been an ever-present in England squads this summer.
The other contentious position was the deputy wicketkeeper spot with uncapped Steven Davies preferred to Craig Kieswetter, who struggled with the bat for his county Somerset this season.
Kevin Pietersen, who was left out of England's one-day international squad for the latest series to gain match practice, is also included in a party captained by Andrew Strauss.
England and Wales Cricket board (ECB) national selector Geoff Miller is confident they have selected a competitive squad for the series, saying in an official statement: "We believe we've selected an outstanding Test squad for what will be a fiercely contested Ashes series in Australia.
Miller also commented on the two returning bowlers, saying they both deserved their opportunities in Australia.
"We feel that following an excellent season with Sussex Monty Panesar deserves his opportunity to assume the role as England's second spinner behind Graeme Swann," said Miller.
"We feel that Chris Tremlett's inclusion will add a real threat of pace and bounce to our bowling attack given the conditions in Australia."
Strauss is quietly confident that his team can retain the Ashes which they won back in a tight series last summer.
"I am excited by the Test squad we have selected for the upcoming Ashes series as I firmly believe we have a number of match winners across all areas of the squad," he said.
"It's exciting to have the Ashes as our sole focus from this point on and I know every member of this Ashes squad will be relishing the challenge of retaining the Ashes in Australia.
"To captain England in an Ashes series Down Under is a huge honor and something I am looking forward to with enormous anticipation."
England Ashes Test squad: Andrew Strauss (C) (Middlesex) Alastair Cook (VC) (Essex) James Anderson (Lancashire) Ian Bell (Warwickshire) Tim Bresnan (Yorkshire) Stuart Broad (Nottinghamshire) Paul Collingwood (Durham) Steven Davies (wk) (Surrey) Steven Finn (Middlesex) Eoin Morgan (Middlesex) Monty Panesar (Sussex) Kevin Pietersen (Hampshire) Matt Prior (wk) Sussex) Graeme Swann (Nottinghamshire) Chris Tremlett (Surrey) Jonathan Trott (Warwickshire)
