Holders Barcelona were paired with Bundesliga side Bayer Leverkusen in the draw for the last 16 of this season's European Champions League Friday.
The Catalan giants, who defeated Manchester United in May's final to claim a third European crown, will be favorites to advance at the expense of 2002 runners-up Leverkusen.
The two teams last faced each other in the second group phase of the 2002/03 competition, with four-time European champions Barcelona claiming victory in both matches.
Elsewhere, seven-time winners AC Milan came out of the hat against English Premier League side Arsenal, who were beaten by Barca in the final in 2006.
The pair faced each other at the same stage three years ago, with Arsenal advancing 2-0 on aggregate after registering an impressive second-leg triumph at the San Siro.
Barcelona's arch-rivals Real Madrid will continue their quest for a 10th European crown against Russian outfit CSKA Moscow.
Portuguese coach Jose Mourinho would become the first coach to have won the Champions League with three different teams, having led Inter Milan to glory in 2010 and Porto in 2004.
Mourinho's former club Chelsea are looking to win the Champions League for the first time in their history, having lost the 2008 final on penalties to Manchester United, but face an awkward tie against 1989 UEFA Cup winners Napoli.
APOEL Nicosia made history by becoming the first Cypriot team to advance beyond the group stages of the competition. Their reward is a clash with French side Lyon.
The 2010 champions Inter Milan will also come up against French opposition in Didier Deschamps' Marseille.
German powerhouses Bayern Munich have been drawn against Basel, the Swiss outfit who advanced at the expense of Manchester United.
Portugal's Benfica topped Basel's group and Jorge Jesus' team will play Luciano Spalletti's Zenit St. Petersburg, making their debut at this stage of the competition.
The first legs of the ties will be played across February 14/15 and 21/22, with the return matches set for March 6/7 and 13/14.
Meanwhile, the draw for the last 32 of the Europa League was made later Friday in Nyon and Manchester sides United and City were given tough tasks.
English Premier League champions United will face Dutch side Ajax, while City, who are leading the EPL this season, must get past holders Porto of Portugal.
