Johnny Depp brought the biggest star power to the MTV Movie Awards on Sunday, taking the stage to play guitar while he was honored for his acting career.
Aerosmith's Joe Perry and Stephen Tyler presented the MTV Generation Award to Depp, while The Black Keys played a song with Depp on guitar.
"Johnny Depp is a rock star in the world of movies," Tyler said.
Perry called him "a gutsy actor, a gutsy musician, a gutsy artist with passion."
"He's legitimately great on guitar," Black Keys' lead singer-guitarist Dan Auerbach told CNN backstage after the performance.
Otherwise, the two-hour telecast was filled with penis one-liners and sight gags interrupted occasionally with the presentation of gold-plated popcorn box trophies for achievements including "best on-screen dirt bag."
Host Russell Brand set the mood with an opening monologue that included no less than four jokes about the male reproductive organ. The person in charge of censoring foul language was kept busy through the show.
"The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn - Part 1" won the highest honor, movie of the year, in the fan voting that continued online even as the show was underway.
"Twilight" stars Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart won for best kiss, an honor they received for the previous installment as well.
"Thanks, you guys, for giving us best kiss again," Stewart said.
"The Hunger Games" claimed four acting awards, including best male and female performances for Josh Hutcherson and Jennifer Lawrence, respectively. The pair also won for "best on-screen fight."
"Hunger Games" actress Elizabeth Banks was voted best on-screen transformation for her portrayal of District 12 escort Effie Trinket.
"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2" took the best cast trophy.
"Bridesmaid" star Melissa McCarthy won for best comedic performance. She and her ensemble of castmates were honored for "best gut-wrenching performance," for the food poisoning in the dressing room scene.
MTV's breakthrough performance award went to actress Shailene Woodley for her role in "The Descendants," George Clooney's Oscar-nominated film.
"Right now, I have no idea what's going on," Woodley said backstage. It would take time to digest the significance of her new gold popcorn trophy, she said.
A seemingly sober Charlie Sheen paid tribute to "Project X," declaring it an instant cult classic. It had all the ingredients of a party movie: Beer, babes, more beer and destruction, he said.
"Finally a movie that captures what's going on in my head 24 hours a day," Sheen said.
Jennifer Aniston gloated over winning for "best on-screen dirt bag" for her role in "Horrible Bosses."
"Do you know how long I've have tried to have someone let me unleash my on-screen dirtbag?" she said in her acceptance speech.
During a more serious part of the show, actress Emma Stone was brought to tears after she accepted the MTV Trailblazer Award. It is a recognition of her unusual path to stardom.
She told her teenaged fans to harness their own originality. "A lot of times, it's what makes you great," Stone said.
The best music trophy was handed to LMFAO for "Party Rock Anthem," heard in "21 Jump Street."
