(CNN Student News) -- December 16, 2013
Reports from Africa, Europe, and the moon land in CNN Student News' last Monday edition of 2013. We also report on the meeting of two, 107-year-old U.S. veterans, and we look at a debate concerning a California community's Christmas tradition.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were to interview World War II veterans for a news report, what questions would you ask them? What do you think would be of greatest interest to a news audience?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. South Africa
2. World War II veterans
3. lunar rover
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Describe the scene near Nelson Mandela's burial site. Why was this site significant? What did people there say about Mandela and South Africa?
2. What country's "Jade Rabbit" spacecraft recently landed on the moon?
3. What different perspectives were seen in today's report about unrest in Ukraine?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why might U.S. Sen. John McCain's trip to Ukraine be significant? What potential benefits and risks might accompany a U.S. lawmaker's showing of support for protesters in another nation?
2. What do you think might be some of the benefits and challenges of exploring the moon? What questions might need to be answered to determine whether lunar mining is feasible?
3. What is your opinion of one group's effort to change the name of the La Jolla Christmas Parade? What is your opinion of the parade organizer's response? Why do you think that the name of this celebration is significant to both sides?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
South Africa
Europe
Ukraine
North America
Austin, Texas; La Jolla, California
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
