The government of de facto Honduran President Roberto Micheletti is not ready to sign a proposed agreement to end the country's ongoing political crisis, Costa Rican Foreign Minister Bruno Stagno said in Honduras.
Interim President Roberto Micheletti is reaching out to Costan Rican President Oscar Arias for a solution.
His remarks came on Tuesday at the conclusion of a two-day visit by a delegation of the Organization of American States.
"Although the commission concludes that progress was made during its visit, it must recognize that there still no disposition toward full acceptance of the San Jose Accord on the part of Mr. Micheletti or his supporters," Stagno said.
The proposed San Jose Accord aims to resolve nearly two months of political turmoil that Honduras has faced following the June 28 coup that ousted President Jose Manuel Zelaya.
The delegation, which consisted of seven foreign ministers and included the participation of OAS Secretary-General Jose Miguel Insulza, met with representatives of all branches of government, presidential candidates, the military, clergy, businessmen and representatives of various sectors of Honduran society.
"The majority of the actors expressed their conformity with the foundations of the San Jose Accord, although many of them expressed concerns about the same," Stagno said.
The biggest obstacles were two points in the proposed agreement: one calling for Zelaya's return to power, and another calling for a temporary political amnesty for both sides.
The delegation also spoke with Zelaya supporters, including his wife, who said that the ousted president was willing to accept the San Jose Accord and abide by it immediately.
Originally, Zelaya's negotiators had walked away from the proposal, offered by Costa Rican President Oscar Arias, citing the intransigence of Micheletti's team.
In support of the OAS delegation, the United States announced Tuesday that many visas for Hondurans would be suspended.
The United Nations and the European Union have condemned the coup and have refused to recognize the provisional government led by former congressional leader Micheletti.
Micheletti has insisted that Zelaya was not overthrown but instead was replaced through constitutional means.
The Honduran political crisis stems from Zelaya's desire to hold a referendum that could have led to extending term limits by changing the constitution, even though the country's congress had outlawed the vote and the Honduran Supreme Court had ruled it illegal.
