After another marathon session of questioning about everything from their news-watching habits to criminal records, the Florida jury that could decide Casey Anthony's fate started rounding into shape Friday.
By day's end, eight men and women had made it through various stages of the process at the Pinellas County courthouse and were still considered viable candidates to be on the jury in the trial of the Florida mother accused of killing her toddler. A total of 12 -- plus eight alternates -- will eventually be seated on the jury, which will be moved to and sequestered in Orange County, where the alleged crime happened and where the trial will take place.
Friday marked the fifth day of jury selection in the case. Anthony, 25, is charged with capital murder in the death of her 2-year-old daughter, Caylee. She faces six other charges, including aggravated child abuse, aggravated manslaughter of a child and misleading law enforcement.
Jury selection was moved from Orlando to Clearwater amid concerns that the intense media attention surrounding the case could make it difficult to select an impartial jury in Orange County. While the process this week has gone somewhat slower than expected -- as evidenced by the fact court proceedings will likely go through 5 p.m. Saturday -- Orange County Superior Court Chief Judge Belvin Perry Jr. said Friday that it is imperative to seat a jury as quickly as possible.
"The cry was pretrial publicity. In a free society, I cannot stop the press from reporting, broadcasting, and reporting," said Perry, the presiding judge in the case, explaining the need to pick a jury in Clearwater soon, before more potential jurors are swayed by the media coverage. "The longer we wait, the more dangers there are."
Once there are 12 jurors, Perry will ask the defense and prosecution teams if they want to use their preemptory challenges -- allowing them, at the judge's discretion, to disqualify certain men or women from the jury pool. If they opt not to use the challenges, jurors can be sworn in.
The goal is to have everything finalized for opening arguments Tuesday in Orlando. That would be followed by testimony by investigators, experts and others involved in the case -- including Casey Anthony's father, mother and brother, who have testified in pretrial hearings.
But this week, it's been potential jurors who have been grilled on the stand. As they did Thursday, defense attorneys asked them whether they'd be willing to take into account "verbal, emotional or sexual abuse," should they convict Anthony and be asked to decide whether to give her the death penalty.
Besides the "history of sexual abuse," the defense also hinted again Friday that Anthony's "dysfunctional family" might be proposed as a "mitigating circumstance" if she is convicted of murder, as might be "a lack of impulse control or brain development."
The comments touched again on the Anthony family's rocky relationship with one another. Casey Anthony made allegations of sex abuse against her father and brother in a letter from jail last year. In an interview with NBC News afterward, her father, George Anthony, denied the claims and criticized Jose Baez, another of his daughter's attorneys, for questioning him about the allegations.
Friday's questioning also delved into the prospective jurors' knowledge of the Anthony case, including what and from where they had heard about it.
Caylee was last seen in June 2008. Police began to look for her a month later after Cindy Anthony -- Casey's mother -- made three 911 calls expressing her worry about her granddaughter's disappearance.
The girl's skeletal remains were found in December of that year, in woods about one-quarter mile from the Anthony home. Prosecutors have said they plan to show Casey Anthony lied repeatedly about her daughter's fate, contending she used "a substance" to kill her daughter.
Casey Anthony has pleaded not guilty to the charges. The defense has strongly combated the prosecution's attempts to enter into evidence and hear from an expert claiming that she stashed Caylee's body in the trunk of her car and dumped it.
