Top seed Francesca Schiavone suffered a shock first-round exit at the Malaysian Open on Monday, losing 2-6 7-6 (7-1) 6-4 to Australia's Jelena Dokic.
Former world No. 4 Dokic had not beaten an opponent ranked in the world's top five since a victory over Belgium's Kim Clijsters in 2003.
But the 27-year-old, currently ranked 91st, now has a 100% record in three career meetings with French Open champion Schiavone.
The Italian looked on course to end that run after comfortably claiming the opening set in Kuala Lumpur.
But 2002 Wimbledon semifinalist Dokic fought back to win a second-set tie break, which saw Schiavone require medical assistance after a fall, and eventually seal the match after one hour and 59 minutes.
"Sometimes when you see your opponent get injured you have to be a lot more focused so you don't drop your level," Dokic told the WTA website.
"You can't think that she will not play well. She went for some risky shots early in the rally, so I had to be ready for that. But I think I served really well in the third set.
"I already had a good tournament this year in Paris, I beat top-20 and top-25 players there. I had tough draws in Dubai and Doha and again here, so this is a big win for me."
Dokic will now face the winner of the clash between Japan's Kurumi Nara and Elena Bovina of Russia.
Tuesday sees two more high-profile stars take to the court, as French second seed Marion Bartoli takes on Maria Elena Camerin.
Also in action is three-time grand-slam finalist Dinara Safina, who faces Xinyun Han of China.
Russia's former No. 1 has lost in the first round of all three tournaments she has played this year, most recently at the Australian Open in January, and has dropped to 113th in the rankings.
Elsewhere, Juan Martin del Potro claimed his first title since winning the 2009 U.S. Open when he defeated Janko Tipsarevic in the final of the Delray Beach International Championships in Florida on Sunday.
Del Potro, now 89th in the world, dropped as low as 485 in the rankings after suffering a serious wrist injury in 2010.
His 6-4 6-4 win over the sixth-seeded Serbian capped a fine month, coming on the back of successive semifinal appearances in San Jose and Memphis.
