Dutch striker Robin van Persie has returned to the Arsenal squad for their European Champions League clash against Barcelona on Tuesday.
Van Persie, 27, was expected to miss the second leg of the last 16 tie after suffering a knee injury while scoring Arsenal's goal in the 2-1 Carling Cup final defeat to Birmingham City.
However, manager Arsene Wenger told a news conference: "Van Persie has made quick progress over the last few days and this morning he had tests as he really wanted to play.
"I really want him to play but only if he is 100% fit. With Van Persie he has had a ligament problem which is different to a muscular injury and so the risk is a lot less of himself doing damage."
The Gunners were given a further boost with the news that captain Cesc Fabregas has a "90%" chance of facing the Spanish giants.
Spain's Fabregas has been sidelined with a hamstring injury picked up in Wenger's side's 1-0 win over Stoke on February 23.
Wenger also confirmed England midfielder Jack Wilshere will be fit for the tie, which Arsenal lead 2-1 ahead of the second leg at the Nou Camp, but central midfielder Alex Song will miss the match with a knee injury.
"Cesc is vital for us because he is important in the transition between attacking and defending. He is also the leader of the team so we want him there.
"Alex Song is completely out. He had a test on Sunday morning and it was negative. Wilshere will be fit."
Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola also has his own injury worries ahead of Tuesday's match.
The former Barca captain is currently suffering from a back injury and will spend Monday night receiving treatment ahead of the game.
The 40-year-old is expected to be fit enough to stand on the touchline for the contest with Arsenal and Guardiola hopes the London team's top players are fit enough to take part.
"I want all the great players to play, everyone against everyone and see a great show tomorrow," Guardiola told a press conference.
"I hope they are all in the team, Van Persie, Samir Nasri, Cesc (Fabregas), because I would like to play the best possible Arsenal.
"Arsenal are always at the top, when you compete every season at the top, it is because they are quality. Many teams arrive at the top for a year, but then are finished. Arsenal are there every season."
The Catalan outfit are without first-choice central defensive duo Carles Puyol and Gerard Pique for the match.
Former Manchester United defender Pique is suspended, while captain Puyol has been out with a knee problem since January.
