Portuguese champions Porto are through to the semfinals of the Europa League after a thumping 5-2 win at Spartak Moscow gave them a 10-3 aggregate victory
Porto went into the match in control of the tie following their 5-1 win in Portugal, and added to that lead when Hulk burst through to score a 28tth-minute opener.
Cristian Rodriguez doubled their advantage with a near post header on the stroke of half-time and Fredy Guarin converted Falcao's pull back early in the second half for the third goal.
Is Villas Boas the new 'Special One'?
Artem Dzyuba gave the home side some pride by pulling a goal back in the 52nd minute but Porto soon regained their three-goal cushion when Falcao headed home.
Ari pulled another back for the hosts but Ruben Micael rifled home a late fifth as Porto achieved the highest-ever quarterfinal winning margin in the history of the competition.
In what proved to be a famous night for Portuguese football, Porto were joined in the last four by compatriots Benfica and Braga, who will now face each other ensuring a Portuguese representative in next month's final in Dublin.
Braga secured their place thanks to a 0-0 home draw with Dynamo Kiev, putting them through on the away goals rule after a 1-1 first leg draw in Ukraine.
And they secured qualification the hard way, playing for over an hour with just 10 men after the dismissal of Paolo Cesar for a late tackle in the 29th minute.
Meanwhile, Benfica secured their place after a 2-2 draw at Dutch side PSV Eindhoven gave them a 6-3 aggregate success.
PSV threatened to create a shock following their 4-1 defeat in Lisbon, racing into an early 2-0 lead on the night.
But goals from Luisao and an Oscar Cardazo penalty ensured Benfica now face their compatriots Braga.
Meanwhile, Porto face Villarreal in the other semi, after the Spanish side eased past Dutch champions FC Twente.
Already 5-1 up from the first leg in Spain, Villarreal completed the job with a 3-1 victory in the Netherlands for an 8-2 aggregate win.
Twente gave themselves a glimmer of hope with Emir Bajrami's 32nd minute tap in but the visitors levelled on the hour when Giuseppe Rossi scored from the spot after Twente's Dwight Tiadealli was sent off for fouling Wakaso Mubarak.
Marco Ruben added a second penalty on 84 minutes and Cani completed the scoring with a superb left-foot volley late on.
