A Georgia woman who potentially faced more jail time than the driver who struck and killed her son last year was spared any time behind bars Wednesday.
Raquel Nelson of Marietta was sentenced to 12 months of probation and 40 hours of community service by Judge Kathryn Tanksley. Half of those hours must relate to child safety.
Nelson has already faced the ultimate nightmare for a mother -- seeing her child die after being struck by a car in 2010. She initially faced up to 36 months in jail in connection with the incident -- a sentence six times longer than the time served by the driver of the car that hit her son.
The case had become a cause for radio talk show hosts, the NAACP and even transportation advocates, who said Nelson is being punished because she chose to cross the road at the bus stop across from her apartment instead of traveling to the nearest crosswalk, three-tenths of a mile away.
"Your office's decision to prosecute Raquel Nelson for the death of her four-year-old son on a vehicular homicide charge is disgusting and inhumane," wrote one poster to the Facebook page of the Cobb County Solicitor General's office, which is handling the case.
More than 135,000 people have signed an online petition calling for leniency.
"It's just so confusing and unreal that it would happen in this manner," said Loretta Williams, Nelson's aunt.
Nelson and her three children had just gotten off the bus at a stop across from their apartment building in October 2010 when her 4-year-old son, A.J., broke away from her and ran into the street.
A car struck the boy. Nelson and one of her two daughters also suffered minor injuries. Five weeks after the accident, investigators came to Nelson's home, Williams said. She was charged with three misdemeanors -- second-degree vehicular homicide, failing to cross at a crosswalk and reckless conduct, according to court records.
A jury convicted her last week. Each count carried a potential sentence of one year in jail.
The man driving the car, Jerry Guy, fled the scene after the accident, but later admitted being involved, according to CNN affiliate WXIA-TV. He was sentenced to five years in prison, but served only six months. He is serving the remainder of the sentence on probation.
A representative of the Cobb County Solicitor General's office said the agency could not comment on the case until sentencing is complete.
The NAACP called the case against Nelson a "grave miscarriage of justice when the mother who is still grieving is forced to fight harder for her freedom than the man who killed her son."
The case has also attracted attention from transportation advocates, who say Nelson is being treated unfairly because transportation planners fail to take into account the needs of pedestrians when designing roads.
"Because she did as her fellow bus riders, who crossed at the same time and same place, and because she did what pedestrians will do every time -- take the shortest reasonable path -- she is guilty of vehicular homicide," Transportation for America communications director David Goldberg wrote on the advocacy organization's blog.
Nelson had hoped to receive a minimal sentence Tuesday, Williams said.
CNN's Tristan Smith contributed to this report.
