Investigators on Tuesday released the identities of eight people who were killed in a mobile home in southeastern Georgia.
Guy Heinze Jr. faces drug charges and is accused of evidence tampering and making false statements.
A ninth person remains in critical condition, the Glynn County Police Department said.
Police identified the victims as Michelle Toler, 15; Michael Toler, 19; Russell D. Toler Jr., 20; Chrissy Toler, 22; Joseph L. West, 30; Russell D. Toler Sr., 44; Guy Heinze Sr., 45; and Brenda Gail Falagan, 49.
They were found dead Saturday in Brunswick, Georgia, about 300 miles southeast of Atlanta, on the Atlantic coast.
Police said autopsies were completed Monday, but they did not offer any information about the findings.
Authorities did not identify the hospitalized victim.
A man who found the bodies called 911 Saturday to report in an anguished voice that he had arrived home to find "my whole family's dead."  Hear the frantic 911 call reporting the slayings »
"I just got home," a man identified as Guy Heinze Jr., 22, tells the emergency dispatcher in the call, released Monday. "I was out last night. I got home just now, and everybody's dead. ... My whole family's dead. It looks like they've been beaten to death.
"I don't know what to do, man," an emotional Heinze tells the dispatcher. "My dad, my mom, my uncle, my cousin. .... My dad, he's laying there dead. That was my dad."
A neighbor placed the call and put Heinze on the phone as well as the mobile home park's maintenance man. The park manager also called 911, sobbing as she told dispatchers, "Please hurry."
Officers found seven people dead in the residence at the New Hope mobile home park. An eighth person died Sunday.
Heinze was arrested Saturday night and faces charges of having a controlled substance and marijuana as well as evidence tampering and making false statements to a police officer, Glynn County Police Chief Matt Doering said.
According to an arrest warrant, Heinz provided "investigators with false and misleading information about his whereabouts and involvement in the circumstances leading up to him calling 911 to report the deaths of his family members."
No further details were available.
The arrest warrant also said that he removed a shotgun from the residence and hid it in the trunk of his car.
He had Darvocet, a narcotic painkiller, and marijuana in a pill bottle in the center console of his car, according to the arrest warrant.
Doering said Heinze has been cooperative. He stopped short of naming him a suspect in the deaths.
"We're still looking for anybody and everybody that may be related to this," he said Sunday. "That naturally includes [Heinze]. Of course, we're looking at him."
Heinze's attorney, Ron Harrison, said his client, who has a bail hearing Wednesday, denies any involvement in the killings.
The arrest warrant, he said, alleges that his client took a shotgun from the house and hid it in his car.
Asked how Heinze was doing, Harrison said, "Not well. Not well at all. You come across this murder scene, you call 911, and then you end up in jail."
Police have said they have "no known suspects" in the case. "We are not looking for any known suspects," Doering said. "That doesn't say that there are no suspects. They're just not known to us."
The 911 call paints a picture of violent chaos.
At one point, while the maintenance man, known only as Mike, talks to dispatchers, Heinze goes in the mobile home and reports that his cousin, identified as Michael, is breathing. The maintenance man said that Michael is a "young man with Down syndrome." Heinze reports the youth's "face is smashed in," he said.
Heinze gets back on the phone to talk to a supervisor, repeating that Michael appears to be having trouble breathing and needs an ambulance. The dispatcher assures him help is on the way and tries to question him gently.
"People's beat," Heinze said. "Everybody is dead."
Asked what the mobile home looks like, he yells, "It looks like a [expletive] murder scene."
The dispatcher asks Heinze to try to question Michael, and Heinze asks him, "Where do you hurt?" There is no response.
Doering said Sunday that police think at least one person not in custody may have information in the case.
Police had been called to the home before, Doering said, but would not say why.
He has been tight-lipped about many aspects of the case, refusing to say how the victims died. All nine victims lived in the mobile home, he said, and police do not believe any of them conducted the assault.
He said police are making progress and have narrowed down the timeline for when the deaths occurred.
CNN's Sean Callebs contributed to this report.
