A southeastern South Carolina school reopened Wednesday, a day after a student opened fire at a school police officer and bomb squads dismantled several pipe bombs.
A 14-year-old student was in custody in connection with the incident at Socastee High School in Conway, said a statement from the Horry County Police Department.
Officers responding to a call of shots fired at the school about 2 p.m. found that the student allegedly confronted Horry County Police Officer Erik Karney and drew a gun, the statement said. "A struggle ensued, and during the altercation, the student shot at Officer Karney."
Karney was not shot, but was injured from shrapnel, the statement said. Sgt. Robert Kegler of the Horry County Police Department said Tuesday the bullet struck a wall and shrapnel hit Karney's face. He was treated and released from a hospital after the student was detained.
CNN affiliate WMBF reported the student was in Karney's office and opened fire with a handgun.
The school was evacuated, and students were sent to the football field, police said. Authorities later heard allegations of explosive devices at the school, and summoned the bomb squad, which located "several suspicious devices." The devices, which were rendered safe, were later identified as pipe bombs, police said.
The bomb squad went to the home of the student and executed a search warrant, the statement said. "Horry County Police did locate and seize items consistent with the construction of pipe bombs and other incendiary devices" at the home.
The 14-year-old resides in Myrtle Beach, authorities said. He was in the custody of the Department of Juvenile Justice in the state capital, Columbia, on Wednesday.
The case remained under investigation, and charges had not yet been determined, police said.
Teal Britton, spokeswoman for Horry County Schools, confirmed to WMBF that metal detectors were not used on students entering the school Tuesday morning. That will change Wednesday morning, she said.
.
CNN's Shawn Nottingham contributed to this report.
