Camille Grammer accuses her ex-boyfriend of leaving her bruised and battered from a fight while she was recovering from cancer surgery.
A judge granted the ex-wife of actor Kelsey Grammer a temporary restraining order Tuesday that says Dimitri Charalambopoulos must stay at least 100 yards away from her.
CNN has been unable to reach Charalambopoulos for a response.
Court documents filed by Grammer -- a former "Real Housewife of Beverly Hills" cast member -- describe in dramatic detail an early morning fight with Charalambopoulos in a Houston, Texas, hotel where she was recovering from surgery two weeks ago.
"I wake up at least twice per night with visions of his face as he was attacking me," Grammer said in her filing. "I continue to fear for my safety and for the safety of my children, who had grown to trust Mr. Charalambopoulos during the course of my relationship with him."
Grammer, 45, began dating Charalambopoulos, a 36-year-old fitness trainer from Texas, more than two years ago, according to court papers. Her divorce from Kelsey Grammer was finalized in February 2011.
The argument began at 1:30 a.m. on October 16 when she was awakened by the vibration of Charalambopoulos' cell phone "with incoming text messages and phone calls from another woman," Grammer said.
"Inquiry escalated to argument, and Mr. Charalambopoulos became verbally abusive to me, shouting expletives and insulting me with misogynic epithets," she said. "He grabbed me by the hair, twisted it around his hand, and repeatedly pulled my head into the bed and its headboard. In so doing, Mr. Charalambopoulos succeeded in pulling out swaths of my hair and gave me a large, painful contusion on the side of my head."
When Grammer began screaming for help, "Charalambopoulos squeezed my nose between his fingers and pushed upward forcefully, meanwhile covering my mouth in an attempt to silence me and to prevent me from breathing," she said. "I experienced great pain in my nose and became afraid for my life as a consequence."
The attack continued for another 40 minutes to an hour, she said.
"I begged him to stop and threatened to call police," she said. "He wrestled me on the hotel bed, repeatedly slamming my head and face into the furniture, and eventually he succeeded in completely immobilizing me."
Sitting on top of her -- with his knees "mere inches from the area that had been the object my invasive surgery only a few days before" -- Charalambopoulos put his fist in her face and told her, "I wanna smash your head in," and "I'll give you a reason to call the cops," Grammer said in her sworn statement.
Before leaving her hotel room, he smashed her iPhone and unplugged and disassembled the hotel phones, she said.
"He told me I was going to hell, and then, to make his escape, he said he would 'knock (me) out' if I moved from the bed while he left the hotel," Grammer said.
Three minutes after he walked out, Grammer "hobbled down" four flights of stairs to the hotel lobby where an employee called police, she said.
A Houston police spokesman said no charges have been filed, but the incident is still under investigation. He noted that "they broke each other's cell phones" and her injuries were minor.
Grammer's request for the restraining order included photographs of bruises on her wrists and face, her broken cell phone and a clump of her hair.
A hearing to decide whether the temporary order will be made permanent is set for November 19 at the Santa Monica branch of the Los Angeles County Superior Court.
CNN's Oscar Merino and Jane Caffrey contributed to this report.
