Russian President Vladimir Putin has been known to play with tigers and ride horseback shirtless. Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev apparently prefers pachyderms.
In between diplomatic meetings at the ASEAN summit that is underway in the capital of Myanmar, Medvedev visited one of this country's biggest attractions -- the white elephants kept in pens next to the giant golden pagoda in Naypyitaw.
Medvedev had his shirt on, a Hawaiian shirt in fact, as he and a small entourage fed snacks to the elephants as his motorcade was parked just outside the Uppatasanti Pagoda.
Obama in Myanmar: Rohingya crisis could dim ASEAN
My producer and I happened to be visiting the same pagoda at just the right time.  Alerted to Medvedev's presence by the Russian flags mounted on a fleet of black stretch limos, we quickly seized the opportunity to see a Russian leader out in the wild.
There was one small problem. We happened to be barefoot as it is customary to remove your shoes before entering a temple.
With no time or shoe leather to spare, we scampered down the pagoda's steps and caught up with the prime minister.
On the other side of the world, Obama determined as ever to bypass Congress
Medvedev was on his way to his limo as I shouted a few questions.
CNN: "What do you think of the elephants?"
Medvedev: "Excellent.  Magical.  Super."
CNN: "Do you think the U.S. and Russia can come to an agreement on what's happening in Ukraine right now?"
Medvedev:  "Time will show."
The Russian Prime Minister returned to his motorcade. I put my shoes back on.
As it turns out, Medvedev and President Barack Obama spoke briefly about the crisis in Ukraine on the sidelines of the ASEAN summit.  Following their encounter, the Russian news agency Interfax quoted Medvedev as saying he and Obama did not resolve their nations' differences over Ukraine.
"Naturally, we discuss such nuances, but, obviously, it is not the kind of format that could allow us to resolve all existing problems," Medvedev said.
Secret talks, long dinner led to historic climate agreement
The U.S. must "stop resorting to sanctions and return to normal, calm and productive talks" the Russian Prime Minister added.
Two years ago, Obama infamously told Medvedev in a "hot mic" moment that he would have more "flexibility" in his dealings with Putin after the 2012 presidential election.
"I will transmit this information to Vladimir," replied Medvedev, who was Russia's president at the time.
Instead of feeding information back to Moscow, Medvedev on this day had the ears of a few grateful and rather hungry white elephants.
The best moments from Obama's China trip in GIFs
