(CNN Student News) -- April 15, 2014
Uncertain times in an unstable nation: Today's show begins with a report about a deteriorating crisis in Ukraine. We also introduce you to an American runner who's been affected by two terrorist attacks on U.S. soil. And we explain what an umbra is and how it factors in to a celestial event you just don't see every night!
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What types of media messages might help people who are filing their taxes as the deadline looms?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. 16th Amendment
2. PTSD
3. umbra
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Why is Ukraine in a state of instability? How has Ukraine's government responded to protesters? Whom does Ukraine and its allies blame for the protests, and why? How has Russia responded?
2. Who is Sally Duval? What connection does she have to two different national tragedies? What happened in Boston, Massachusetts on April 15, 2013? How did this attack affect Duval? Who is Joanne Pomodoro? What will she participate in for the first time next Monday? How is she helping other runners to prepare? What advice does Duval have for those affected by tragedy?
3. What are Americans required to do on Tax Day? What amendment gives the federal government the power to collect income taxes? What are some of the things these taxes are used to fund?
4. What is the name of the shadow that occurs during an eclipse? What causes a "blood moon"? What conditions could obstruct the view of this eclipse?
5. What is Red Paw? Why did Jen Leary create this program? In what career did she witness human tragedy and loss? What does she do with the pets she takes in? Why does she think that this is an important cause?
Discussion Questions:
1. Has your community ever faced a tragedy? If so, what did residents do to help themselves heal and move on? Do you agree with Sally Duval when she advises people to stick with their routines as a way to move past a tragedy? Explain. What approach do you think helps people heal after a tragedy?
2. Why do you think that Tax Day is a source of stress for some people? What do you think that they and others might do to make the day less stressful?
3. Why do you think that eclipses and other astronomical events often receive news coverage? What other kinds of science stories often get media coverage? Why do you think this is the case?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
