The father of Princess Diana's boyfriend attacked the British Royal family Monday with a series of insults and accusations at the inquest looking into how the couple died.
Mohamed Al Fayed, father of Dodi, repeated his allegations of a massive cover-up involving the Royal family, paparazzi and for the first time Diana's sister. He has previously included British intelligence services in the alleged plot.
Al Fayed, who spent most of the day in the witness box, let out a torrent of allegations that members of the royal family were racist.
He has previously blamed Prince Philip for the deaths, insisting that the royal family couldn't bear the prospect of a Muslim marrying the princess.
"Diana suffered for 20 years from this Dracula family," Al Fayed said Monday.
"I will not rest until I die. If I lose everything to find the truth," Al Fayed, told the court.
Al Fayed, owner of London's famed Harrods department store, began his testimony by reading a statement saying Diana told him in July 1997, the month before the crash, that she feared for her life.  Watch Al-Fayed have his day in court. »
He said Diana told him her ex-husband Prince Charles, and the queen's husband Prince Philip, wanted to "get rid" of her.
Diana said she had a wooden box with her initials on it containing all the details about why she feared for her life, Al Fayed said. He added she told him that if anything ever happened to her, he needed to know about the box.
After the crash, however, the contents of the box were stolen before he could get to them, he said.
For the first time Al Fayed implicated Diana's sister, Lady Sarah McCorquodale, in the alleged cover-up. He said he spoke to her about the wooden box after the crash, but the fact that the contents were later stolen is evidence that she tried to conceal them, he said.
Al Fayed has previously said that Diana was pregnant with Dodi's child at the time of the crash, although British and French police investigations into the crash have discounted this.
At the inquest, Al Fayed testified that Diana and Dodi were engaged and planned an announcement the Monday after the crash.
When an inquest lawyer challenged Al Fayed as to why he didn't tell everybody once he knew about the alleged engagement, Al Fayed claimed he had only just found out himself.
"It was one hour before they were murdered. Am I going to announce it after they were dead?"
John Macnamara, the former head of security for Al Fayed, last week said at at the inquest that he did not he believe Prince Philip was involved in a conspiracy to kill the couple.
During the five-month inquest, witnesses have been questioned about a mysterious white Fiat Uno which some witnesses reported seeing shortly before the crash but which was never traced.
Al Fayed said the car belonged to paparazzo James Andanson, who did own a white Fiat Uno. Al Fayed said Andanson, who was found dead two years later in a burned-out car, was part of the murder plot and "assassinated" to cover up his role.
The inquest has also heard testimony about whether the chauffeur, Henri Paul, was drunk on the night of the crash.
Al Fayed claimed Paul was sober and that French investigators botched the tests, though he did not give evidence to support the claim. Instead he alleged a coverup by two French investigators: Dominique Lecomte, who conducted the post-mortem on Paul, and Gilbert Pepin, who tested Paul's blood.
Al Fayed also questioned the delay in transporting Diana to a hospital after the crash, adding she might have survived had she gotten treatment sooner.
He also alleged that MI6, Britain's foreign Intelligence Service, infiltrated the British tax service, as well as the Home Office -- the UK's interior ministry -- and continued to conspire against him. Al Fayed said the Home Office denied him a passport as part of the plot.
The inquest is required under British law whenever someone dies in suspicious, sudden, or unexplained circumstances but it will only decide how they died and not lay blame.
It began in October 2007 -- after the French and British investigations into the crash concluded -- and is expected to last six months. E-mail to a friend
CNN's Teresa Martini contributed to this report.
