(EW.com) -- AMC is already calling Saul again.
The network announced Thursday that it had picked up a second season of "Better Call Saul," the "Breaking Bad" spin-off starring Bob Odenkirk, before the first episode of the show has even aired.
And speaking of season 1: The first of those highly anticipated 10 episodes, which was originally slated to debut in November, has been pushed back a few months and will now premiere in early 2015, according to AMC. The 13-episode season 2 is scheduled to hit the air in early 2016.
"Breaking Bad" creator Vince Gilligan, who is serving as co-showrunner and executive producer of Saul, will direct the first episode of the series, which will serve as a prequel and chronicle the adventures of underhanded attorney Saul Goodman before he teamed up with meth kingpin Walter White (Bryan Cranston).
The network also released the first official photo from the set, which features Odenkirk, Gilligan, and Peter Gould, the "Bad" co-executive producer who created the Goodman character and is serving as Saul's other co-showrunner/executive producer.
"Production on Better Call Saul is underway and we could not be more proud of nor more excited about the work to date. We join the fans in eager anticipation for this series and today we happily confirm that our initial Saul order is for two seasons and a total of 23 episodes," said AMC president Charlie Collier in a statement. "When introducing any series, especially one with the DNA of Breaking Bad, there are countless factors to consider in making sure the show gets the launch it deserves. We have a strong history with Vince, Peter, Bob, the studio and so many involved with this production; we are enjoying the process on 'Saul' and all share a focus on making it a true television event. No half measures."
The project reunites many members of the "Breaking Bad" team besides Gilligan, Gould, and Odenkirk. Jonathan Banks, who played fixer Mike Ehrmantraut on the original series, is a member of the cast, and Bad writer-producers Thomas Schnauz and Gennifer Hutchison are among Saul's scribes. New cast members include Michael McKean, Patrick Fabian, Rhea Seehorn, and Michael Mando.
See the original story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
