FIFA appointed a normalization committee on Tuesday aimed at reforming the currently suspended Bosnia and Herzegovina Football Federation (FFBH).
The FFBH was banned from international football and continental club competition on April 1 after it failed to amend its three-headed presidency, which saw a Bosnian, a Croat and a Serb all perform the role at the head of the organization.
The split in the presidency reflects the political make-up of the former Yugoslav republic and mirrors the nature of the domestic presidency, which since the end of the Bosnian war in 1995 has rotated every eight months to a leader from one of the three separate ethnic groups.
But football's governing body and the organization in charge of Europe, UEFA, require the FFBH to provide a single figurehead.
Six stakeholders will make up the committee, two from each ethnic background, with the honorary president of the Slovakian association taking an advisory role.
Bosnia and Herzegovina hit with international ban
"The FIFA Emergency Committee has decided to appoint a normalization committee in order to solve the problems faced by the FFBH," read a statement of FIFA's official web site.
"A six-person normalization committee made up of football personalities from Bosnia-Herzegovina has been established and put in place with immediate effect."
The newly-instated group will be charged with severing all ties to the previous regime, which FIFA claimed had led taken "some major financial risks, which may even lead to bankruptcy due to its debts towards the tax authorities."
National team coach Safet Susic, whose team currently sit fourth in Euro 2012 qualifying Group D, will remain suspended from competitive matches until FIFA and UEFA statutes have been adopted by the FFBH.
The normalization committee's first responsibility will be to call a general assembly before May 26, before electing new representatives by no later than November 30.
After the ballot, the committee would hand over responsibility for football in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the elected parties.
As the situation stands, Susic's squad will be unable to fulfill their next qualifying fixture against Romania on June 3.
