Amal Alamuddin may have just accomplished what many believed was the impossible: snagging Hollywood's most notable bachelor.
The Lebanese-born British beauty is reportedly engaged to George Clooney, who many thought could never be tied down.
Not a lot is known about Alamuddin, who is said to have started dating the actor in October. But here is what we do know:
1. She's a well-respected attorney.
Alamuddin's profile on the site The Legal 500 says she "specialises in international law, human rights, criminal law and extradition." Some of her clients have included the Royal Court of Bahrain and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange.
"She is also part of the legal team representing the government of Cambodia in a case involving a territorial dispute with Thailand at the International Court of Justice in The Hague," the site says. "She has previously worked as a legal adviser to judges at the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and as senior legal adviser to the prosecutor of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon."
2. Clooney isn't the only one who finds her attractive.
She was named one of the 21 hottest female barristers in London on the blog "Your Barrister Boyfriend."
"These are three short words that come to mind when thinking about this dazzling beauty," the blog states about her. "Amal Alamuddin may make some feel inadequate because she has achieved the seemingly unattainable ideal of contemporary femininity: She is both breathtakingly beautiful and formidably successful."
3. She's a world traveler.
In addition to being fluent in both Arabic and French, Alamuddin has traveled widely. Her time in the United States included graduating from the New York University School of Law, and among her trips is a safari to Tanzania she reportedly took with Clooney in March.
4. She's discreet.
Alamuddin, 36, hasn't been speaking out about her relationship with the 52-year-old star. People magazine reported on the engagement based on information from "a source with knowledge of the situation" and reports that the attorney was spotted with a sparkler on her left ring finger.
"George and Amal are trying to keep things very low-key, but they also aren't really trying to hide this, it doesn't seem," the source said. "I think it's like they want the people they love to know that this is real, that they plan on being together forever."
5. Alamuddin must be special.
There's no debating this one if she actually gets the actor to the altar. Clooney, who was married from 1989 until 1993 to "No Strings Attached" actress Talia Balsam, has long been outspoken about the fact that he has had no desire to wed again. In a recent Esquire interview, Clooney said, "I haven't had aspirations in that way, ever," about becoming a husband and father.  He has proved that by dating his fair share of women over the years but not settling down.
6. Her co-workers are happy for her.
Alamuddin may not be talking, but her law firm has spilled the beans. The Doughty Street law firm is clearly excited about the news and released a statement that began, "The barristers and staff of Doughty Street Chambers offer their best wishes and congratulations to Ms Amal Alamuddin, a member of Chambers, and Mr George Clooney on their engagement to be married."
Clooney rep has declined to confirm reports of an engagement, telling CNN, "I do not comment on his personal life."
