Former football star O.J. Simpson walked out of jail late Wednesday after posting $250,000 bail.
O.J. Simpson leaves the Clark County Detention Center late Wednesday night.
Eighth District Judge Jackie Glass hours earlier doubled Simpson's bail to ensure his appearance at an April 7 trial. Glass said Simpson had violated terms of his previous bail.
Glass was adamant that Simpson remain in the Clark County Detention Center until 15 percent of the $250,000 is paid in full -- $37,500 -- after it was revealed in court that Simpson never paid any part of his previous $125,000 bail.
"There's no 'get-out-of-jail-free card' today," an angry Glass told Simpson's lawyers.
"I don't want him out of the jail until the 15 percent is paid in full."  Watch the scolding judge »
The judge scolded Simpson, saying he wasn't taking the matter seriously.
"I don't know if it's just arrogance. I don't know if it's ignorance," she chided.
Simpson posted bail at about 6:15 p.m. local time (9:15 p.m. ET), according to Las Vegas authorities.
Simpson returned to jail in Nevada from his home in Florida January 11 for Wednesday's hearing, after prosecutors alleged he violated the terms of his bail by attempting to contact a co-defendant.
The original bail bondsman -- Miguel Pereira of Florida-based You Ring, We Spring -- testified Wednesday that the former football player didn't put any money toward the bail that allowed him to leave jail in September.
"Not one cent," he said.
The bail bondsman himself paid the 15 percent premium and the $40 filing fee to allow Simpson to leave the detention center, although he said he had a power of attorney for Simpson's Florida home but never filed a lien on it.
When questioned by Simpson attorney Yale Galanter, Pereira admitted he had never sent Simpson a bill for the premium.
But, he said, he had an understanding with Simpson that he would be paid "after it was all over."
Glass described it as "mind-boggling" that Simpson never had to put up any collateral for his first bond and that the bail bondsman never asked for anything.
Prosecutors also produced Wednesday a recording of a profanity-laced voice mail message left on Pereira's answering machine in November from Simpson, which he told Pereira to deliver to co-defendant Clarence Stewart.
The prosecutor said the message contained "an undercurrent of a threat," and he wanted the bail to be raised to at least $1 million.
Galanter did not contest the authenticity of the recording.
As part of his bail granted September 19, Simpson was to have no contact whatsoever with victims, witnesses or co-defendants in the case.
Glass said the same goes this time.  Watch how Simpson wound up in jail »
"When I tell you, Mr. Simpson, there are conditions and there are rules, let me make sure you understand if you violate those rules ... you'll be back, locked up in the Clark County Detention Center; do you understand me?" the judge asked.
"I understand 100 percent," said Simpson, dressed in a navy blue jail jumpsuit.
"No contact [with others in case], no phone messages to third parties, no emails, no letters -- nothing," Glass added.
Galanter said his client "was truly contrite about what has occurred."
"He will abide scrupulously by whatever this court decides," the attorney said.
Simpson faces trial April 7 on 12 criminal counts, including conspiracy, kidnapping, robbery, burglary, coercion and assault with a deadly weapon. The charges stem from a September 13 incident at a Las Vegas hotel in which he allegedly stole sports memorabilia he said belonged to him from dealers Alfred Beardsley and Bruce Fromong.
According to earlier testimony, Beardsley and Fromong were offering more than 600 Simpson-related items for sale, including ties Simpson wore during his criminal trial for the 1994 murders of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ron Goldman. Simpson was acquitted in that trial. E-mail to a friend
