"Married ... with Children" may have ended in 1997, but that doesn't mean we've seen the last of the Bundys.
As originally reported by E!, there's a chance that the comedy could return to TV in a new form. Sony Pictures Television, the studio behind the original series, is said to be shopping a pitch for a spinoff series centered on David Faustino's girl-crazy Bud Bundy.
There's no word yet on the plot of the pitch, or if it will be greenlit by the studio. One popular theory is that the show could follow a grown-up Bud as he deals with a family of his own.
It also isn't known if any other characters from the original series would be part of the spinoff, or if any of the original cast members are attached. Faustino, at least, doesn't seem opposed to the idea. When he shared news of the pitch on Facebook Thursday, he added in the caption, "Would be nice, wouldn't it?"
"Married ... with Children" premiered in 1987 and went on to have 11 seasons, becoming the first prime-time series to air on Fox and one of the network's first breakout hits. At 259 episodes, it remains the longest running live-action sitcom on the network.
The show's stars have mostly gone on to major projects since the series aired its finale in 1997. Ed O'Neill is one of the stars of the Emmy-winning "Modern Family," which begins its sixth season September 24. Katey Sagal has gone on to lead roles in TV hits such as "Futurama" and "8 Simple Rules," and currently stars in the FX drama "Sons Of Anarchy," which kicked off its seventh and final season earlier this month, to record ratings.
Christina Applegate has taken prominent parts in comedies such as "Up All Night" and "Samantha Who?" as well as scene-stealing performances in the two "Anchorman" films. The entire cast recently reunited for Sagal's Hollywood Walk of Fame star ceremony.
"Married ... with Children" is just the latest '90s series that could have a revival. "Girl Meets World," the "Boy Meets World" spinoff, has been a success for the Disney Channel and recently got picked up for a second season. And last month, TV Guide reported that a "Full House" reboot is in the works with some of the original actors reprising their roles.
Reps for Sony Pictures Television would not comment on the reports.
