Italian champions AC Milan climbed to the top of Serie A for the first time this season on Friday with a 2-0 win over 10-man Genoa that was delayed for 10 minutes due to supporters fighting outside the stadium.
The game was only 15 minutes old when tear gas started flowing into Genoa's Stadio Luigi Ferraris as police tried to control clashes between the clubs' supporters.
The mid-table home side held out for almost an hour against a Milan team unbeaten in seven previous games -- six of them victories -- but the match turned when Kakha Kaladze was sent off against his former club.
The Georgia international defender was booked for the second time after bringing down Zlatan Ibrahimovic, and the Sweden striker netted the resulting penalty for his eighth goal in 10 league games.
"In the first half we had three chances that we could have scored from and that would have opened up the game," Ibrahimovic told reporters.
"We're playing well, we've got a lot of confidence, also away from home. We're getting a lot of possession and scoring goals.
Brazil forward Robinho was guilty of a shocking miss but Antonio Nocerino eventually doubled the lead with 10 minutes to play, scoring his fifth goal this season after being set up by fellow midfielder Kevin-Prince Boateng.
The victory put Massimiliano Allegri a point above Juventus -- who host second-bottom Cesena on Sunday -- with eight wins and three draws from 13 matches.
Third-placed Udinese could join Milan on 27 points with victory away to the Rossoneri's city rivals Internazionale on Saturday.
Meanwhile, Bayer Leverkusen moved up to sixth place in Germany's Bundesliga with a 2-0 win at home to Hoffenheim on Friday.
In-form Swiss striker Eren Derdiyok headed his sixth goal this season in the 10th minute, while Sidney Sam lobbed goalkeeper Tom Starke with 11 minutes to play to keep Leverkusen unbeaten in five matches in all competitions -- and 10th-placed Hoffenheim winless in as many matches.
Leverkusen now trail Borussia Dortmund and Monchengladbach by four points ahead of the league leaders' clash on Saturday.
If that match ends in a draw, third-placed Bayern Munich can return to the top with a draw or better at home to Werder Bremen.
