Spain midfielder Cesc Fabregas has followed his country's surprise 2-0 Confederations Cup defeat to the United States by hinting he could be ready to leave English Premier League club Arsenal because of their limited success.
Is Cesc Fabregas paving the way for a move away from London-based club Arsenal?
The 22-year-old star told British newspaper The Sun that the loss to the USA was not the prime factor contributing to his depressed mood, instead he focused on his club's inability to win silverware.
"The absence of titles at Arsenal is what angers me the most. Cristiano Ronaldo said he's leaving Manchester United because he had nothing else to win. For me right now it is the exact opposite, seeing the impotence," the playmaker and club captain said. Check out the world's 20 most wanted players.
Fabregas, who joined the north London club in 2003, has not won a major club trophy since Arsenal beat Manchester United in 2005 to lift the FA Cup. Arsene Wenger's team have also not been crowned champions of the Premier League since 2004, a factor that has been increasingly of concern for the diminutive footballer.
"This year we wanted [the title], we were giving everything - but we couldn't reach the level that everyone expected of Arsenal. When you win, you're well. But when you don't, everyone is in a bad mood. For four years now, we've needed a title to regain our belief in ourselves," he added.
Fabregas signed an eight-year contract with the Gunners in 2006, a deal that should see him stay at the club until 2014, however, it seems he is already considering other destinations to ply his trade.
"My seventh season is about to start. It's a lot when you're just 22. When you stop to think, you see that time flies. In football, you have to learn fast and take the best decisions for yourself and try to be happy.
"If one day I'm not happy, I am the first who will tell the manager. I admire Arsene Wenger but each of us has his own life and looks after his own interests."
The midfielder - who helped his national side win the European title in 2008 as well as guiding Arsenal to the semifinals of the Champions League in 2009 - hinted that the ambition shown by Real Madrid has attracted his attention despite descending from a family of Barcelona supporters.
"Of course my family would understand if I signed for Real Madrid because they love me, they want me to be happy and what is best for me. They'd support me - whichever club I joined. My family will always be there for me - whatever decision I make. They're the ones who are always by my side."
Since the re-election of president Florentino Perez, Real Madrid have embarked on a period of extravagant spending, buying Brazil's Kaka for $92 millions dollars from AC Milan and agreeing a $130 million transfer fee with Manchester United for World Player of the Year Ronaldo.
Rumors have circulated that Fabregas could be a target for Los Merengues and the man himself speculated it would be a difficult choice to make if both Barcelona and Real were to bid for him.
"At the moment it's not happened so I don't have to choose. For any player it gives great pride that those two clubs come to sign him. It would be a difficult choice," he added.
Arsenal kick off the forthcoming season in England with an away visit to Everton on August 15.
