A couple of hours before President Obama's prime-time speech on ISIS, Republicans Mitt Romney and Chris Christie took the opportunity of the New Jersey governor's birthday party to blast the President on his foreign policy.
"The foreign policy he's had has not been good for America, has not been good for our safety, has not been good for our friends around the world," Romney said.
Obama outlines strategy to fight ISIS: Airstrikes in Syria, more U.S. troops
The 2012 GOP presidential nominee argued Obama should have intervened earlier in Syria and aided moderate rebels. He also painted the President as being weak in his handling of Russia's intervention in Ukraine.
"It's extraordinary that we don't have a President that knows what to do," Romney said. Along with foreign policy, he outlined major problems he sees with Obama's policies on the economy and education.
Still, Romney encouraged the audience to "support" the President as he takes his next steps in fighting the militant group in Iraq and Syria.
For his part, Christie went off on Obama for dismissing Romney's 2012 argument that Russia was the United States' No. 1 geopolitical foe -- an assessment that Republicans have lorded over Obama ever since the unrest began between Russia and Ukraine.
"Let me tell you something, Mr. President," Christie said. "You were wrong, Mitt Romney is right, and the world is suffering because of it."
A preview of what's to come?
Christie's birthday bash with Romney had all the appearances of a potential campaign rally in 2016, that is if Christie runs for President:
-- A highly complimentary introduction of Christie by the most recent GOP nominee.
-- An excited audience with phones jutted in the air, taking photos.
-- A giant American flag as the backdrop.
-- Both wives on stage.
-- And of course, blistering critiques of Obama.
The New Jersey Republican Party hosted the fundraiser that was billed as an event to celebrate Christie's 52nd birthday, which was on Saturday.
While they sang each others' praises Wednesday night, it was less than two years ago when many of Romney's supporters were saying that Christie cost Romney the election.
They were were furious with Christie after he embraced Obama when the President came to survey Superstorm Sandy damage in New Jersey -- just a few days before Election Day. Critics argued that Christie's warm reception of Obama gave the President some bipartisan sway.
In interviews after the election, however, Romney never blamed Christie, nor did he say there was bad blood between the two. And he has frequently mentioned Christie on his list of potential 2016 Republican candidates.
"This is a guy who cares about the people in this great state, he cares about the poor, he cares about the middle class. He cares about getting good jobs," Romney said Wednesday, introducing Christie. "This is a guy who fights for the things he believes in."
The love fest continued when Christie was at the podium.
"Wouldn't our country be a hell of a better place if this man were the President of the United States?" Christie roared.
Christie: I won't state position on immigration unless I run for president
Would Hillary Clinton top Chris Christie in New Jersey?
