Don't print up the official stationary yet, but reality star and entrepreneur Kim Kardashian has designs on political office. More specifically, she'd like to be the mayor of Glendale, California.
Kardashian shared her political aspirations in a bonus clip for her sister Khloe Kardashian Odom's E! show "Khloe & Lamar."
"I decided, I'm gonna run for the mayor of Glendale," Kim said as the sisters tooled around Dallas. "So I have to buy a house there."
The Kardashian candidacy is a long-term goal, Kim acknowledged, saying it's probably another five years down the road. The next Glendale municipal elections are slated for 2017.
"You have to have residency there ... so (assistant) Noelle (Keshishian) and I are like looking into all the requirements. ... She's going to help me with my campaign."
Kardashian's potential foray into politics comes after successfully parlaying her looks and business savvy into an empire estimated at $35 million. In addition to her reality shows, she has launched clothing and perfume lines. The socialite also endorses a number of other products, such as weight loss pills and tennis shoes.
Making the political bid attractive to Kardashian is Glendale's ethnic makeup. Many of the town's residents share her Armenian heritage.
"Kim has always looked for opportunities to grow and also do what she can to help and support the Armenian community," a statement from her representative said. "She's learning more about ways in which she can help to do her part to make a difference in the community."
Mayor Kim sounds good to a couple of the more influential members of the Los Angeles suburb.
"it's a great idea," Ara Najarian, a city councilmember and former Glendale mayor, told E! News. "I have offered her the position of honorary chief of staff to my office to help her get acquainted to Glendale."
Officially, Kardashian can't run for mayor, Najarian said. She would have to be elected to the city council and then selected to be mayor by the other councilmembers for a one-year term.
