He racked up two within the space of a month in 2008, but six years on Padraig Harrington will once again find himself watching a major from afar.
The two-time British Open winner's frustrating 2014 continued Monday after he failed to qualify for the U.S. Open for the first time in 15 years.
Harrington was unable to advance from the 36-hole qualifying event at Walton Heath's New Course, falling six strokes short after recording rounds of 75 and 71.
The disappointment follows on from the 42-year-old's failure to qualify for the Masters for the first time in 14 years last month, with his five-year qualifying exemption from his 2008 U.S. PGA Championship win having expired.
"The damage was done in the morning with that 75," Harrington told the PGA Tour's official website.
Harrington felt his unfamiliarity with the New Course played a part in his downfall.
"[I] just made a few mistakes in not knowing the golf course and I was never comfortable with the pace of the greens, as there was a number of three-putts thrown in there," he added.
Harrington's recent setbacks are all the more remarkable given that in 2008 he secured his second British Open title, before adding a maiden U.S.PGA Championship just a month later.
The Irishman's form has suffered a dramatic decline in recent years and he is still searching for a first win on the European Tour or PGA Tour since claiming the U.S. PGA Championship.
Harrington, who revealed that he had undergone skin cancer treatment in February, has slipped to 214th in the world rankings.
The six-time Ryder Cup player is now set to take a week's break before returning to the PGA Tour for the FedEx St. Jude Classic in Memphis, which takes place from June 5-8.
Harrington's compatriot Shane Lowry, meanwhile, built on his second-placed finish at the European PGA Championship Sunday to finish top at Walton Heath.
Lowry, who missed out to Rory McIlroy by a shot at Wentworth, carded rounds of 69 and 67 to secure his spot at the U.S. Open.
It is the second time in five attempts that the 26-year-old has been successful at Walton Heath in qualifying for the tournament.
"It was really tough out there. I played okay and putted really, really well. I holed a lot of six to eight footers for par and carried a lot of momentum in from yesterday to get the job done," he told the European Tour's official website.
"I was three under this morning and this afternoon chipped in for eagle to get to five, so that got me going.
"I just tried to play steady from there and not lose my head. It was tough last week and then 36 holes in this weather was very tough. I'm looking forward to my bed tonight."
Meanwhile, two-time major winner Jose Maria Olazabal missed out on qualification after finishing alongside Harrington at two over.
The 114th U.S. Open takes place from June 12-15 at Pinehurst Resort and Country Club.
