The world's top-ranked women's tennis players, Caroline Wozniacki and Vera Zvonareva, have crashed out of the Australian Open warm-up event in Sydney in their opening matches.
After receiving a bye in the first round, Danish top seed Wozniacki won just six games as her Slovakian opponent Dominika Cibulkova cruised to a straight-sets 6-3 6-3 win on Tuesday.
Russian second seed Zvonareva -- winner of last week's Hong Kong Classic exhibition event -- put up more of a fight in her first match against Italy's Flavia Pennetta, but eventually succumbed 7-5 7-5 to the world number 24.
The results are a blow to both players' preparations for the Australian Open, the first grand slam of this year beginning in Melbourne on January 17.
Poland-born Wozniacki had won her last nine sets against Cibulkova, but the world number 32 made a quick start, breaking serve in the opening game before taking the first set.
After trailing 2-3 in the second, she took four straight games to secure her first win over Wozniacki, who is attempting to cement her place as the world's best player with her first grand slam victory in 2011. She lost in the fourth round in Melbourne last year.
"At the start of the new season you need to get into match play. I didn't feel I was playing great tennis out there," the 20-year-old Wozniacki told the official WTA Tour website.
"Now I just need to get some training matches, head to Melbourne and get ready for the Australian Open. Last year I had the same start, so hopefully slow start, good finish."
Wimbledon and U.S. Open finalist Zvonareva could now drop a place in the rankings next week after her defeat by former top-10 player Pennetta.
Belgian third seed Kim Clijsters, who booked her place in the quarterfinals with a straight-sets win over the Czech Republic's Barbora Zahlavova Strycova, would replace Zvonareva as world number two if she progresses further in the tournament.
The triple U.S. Open champion next faces seventh seed Victoria Azarenka, following the Belarusian's 7-5 6-3 triumph over Israel's Shahar Peer.
In the other women's second-round matches completed on Tuesday, China's Li Na battled past French qualifier Virginie Razzano 6-4 1-6 6-4.
The eighth seed set up a third-round meeting with Russia's former world number two Svetlana Kuznetsova, who upset home favorite and fourth seed Sam Stosur in three sets.
In the men's draw, past Sydney finalist and former top-20 player Juan Ignacio Chela recorded his first win at the event in eight years beating Radek Stepanek of the Czech Republic in three sets.
The Argentine's next opponent will be France's Richard Gasquet after the fifth seed claimed a late-night straight sets victory over Australia's Matthew Ebden.
In other completed first round matches, number seven seed Guillermo Garcia-Lopez of Spain beat home favorite Chris Guccione. And Italy's Potito Starace and Andreas Seppi defeated Julien Benneteau of France Denis Istomin of Uzbekistan respectively.
On Monday, former world number five Juan Martin Del Potro returned to winning ways with a first-round win.
The Argentine overcame Spanish sixth seed Feliciano Lopez in three tie break sets to book a second round tie with Germany's Florian Mayer.
At the ATP event in Auckland, New Zealand on Tuesday, Argentine former world number three David Nalbandian beat Italy's Fabio Fognini in straight sets to get his 2011 campaign off to a winning start.
The 29-year-old 2001 Wimbledon finalist will face Phillip Petzschner in the second round after the German knocked out Dutchman Thiemo de Bakker.
