Spain coach Vicente del Bosque has included three uncapped players in his final 23-man squad for the World Cup in South Africa.
Winger Pedro Rodriguez, 22, was named along with his Barcelona teammate Victor Valdes, who edged out 19-year-old David De Gea and Villarreal's Diego Lopez for the third goalkeeping place.
De Gea's 21-year-old clubmate Javi Martinez was handed a midfield berth, having impressed as Atletico Madrid won the UEFA Europa League this season and reached the final of the Spanish Cup.
"They have had a good season, they are coming to strengthen the squad as substitutes for other players," Del Bosque told reporters.
Martinez's fellow under-21 international, Osasuna defender Cesar Azpilicueta, missed out along with midfielders Santi Cazorla and Marcos Senna, who both featured when Spain won Euro 2008.
Sevilla striker Alvaro Negredo was also chopped, as was another member of the triumphant 2008 squad, Dani Guiza.
Del Bosque is giving England-based stars Fernando Torres and Cesc Fabregas every chance to be fit, retaining the duo as they recover from injuries.
Midfielder Andres Iniesta is also expected to be ready, having returned from a calf problem in the last game of the Spanish league season as Barcelona claimed the title.
Barcelona's 19-year-old Bojan Krkic, who missed Spain's Euro 2008 success at his own request due to fatigue, did not even make the initial 30-man squad named earlier this month.
England coach Fabio Capello was forced to go back on his previously iron-clad rules in selecting his preliminary squad for the World Cup.
The Italian has always said he would not pick players who are injured or out of form, but brought Liverpool's Jamie Carragher out of international retirement to bolster his defensive options as cover with injury-prone captain Rio Ferdinand and Ledley King also in the 30-man line-up.
Neither Carragher nor versatile Tottenham star King have yet played for Capello, who retained his midfield mainstay Gareth Barry despite the Manchester City player being in doubt for the June 12 opener against the United States due to injury.
Carragher made himself unavailable in 2007 after not being often used by previous managers Sven-Goran Eriksson and Steve McClaren despite being regularly named in squads.
Blog: Will "the Force" be with Capello at World Cup?
Capello also asked Manchester United midfielder Paul Scholes to become available again following his own international retirement in 2004, but the 35-year-old turned down the opportunity.
"He said no, he preferred to stay with the family. But I tried," Capello told the UK Press Association.
Liverpool fullback Glen Johnson was named despite being sidelined with injury, while striker Emile Heskey retained his place although he has not been a first-choice selection for his club Aston Villa.
Key forward Wayne Rooney was named despite his niggling groin problem, with Tottenham's Jermain Defoe and Peter Crouch taking the other striking spots along with Sunderland's 25-goal Darren Bent.
Winger Aaron Lennon was included after only recently returning with Tottenham after a long-term absence, as was fellow right-sided player Shaun Wright-Phillips despite his failure to win a regular place at Manchester City, who also have 22-year-old Adam Johnson in the squad.
Midfielder Joe Cole also got the nod, having last played for England in 2008, after a strong end to a season that saw him on the fringe of league champions Chelsea's first team.
Germany captain Michael Ballack was ruled out of the World Cup after suffering an ankle injury in the English FA Cup final.
The Chelsea midfielder was caught by a bad tackle from Portsmouth's Berlin-born Kevin-Prince Boateng, who has decided to switch nationalities to play for Group D opponents Ghana and whose half-brother Jerome was earlier named  in the preliminary 27-man German squad.
With No. 1 goalkeeper Rene Adler also sidelined by injury, the 35-year-old Hans-Jorg Butt received his first call-up since 20003 to vie for a starting place with Schalke's Manuel Neuer and Werder Bremen's Tim Wiese.
Butt's young Bayern Munich clubmates Holger Badstuber, 21, and Thomas Muller, 20, gave the Bundesliga champions seven players in coach Joachim Low's squad.
Italy's 2006 World Cup-winning coach Marcelo Lippi has stuck with the players who qualified for South Africa in his 30-man squad, resisting suggestions that he should bring in-form Roma striker Francesco Totti out of international retirement.
Totti's on-loan teammate Luca Toni also missed out along with veteran Juventus forward Alessandro Del Piero, with Villarreal's Giuseppe Rossi one of seven strikers named.
Inter Milan's controversial Italy under-21 forward Mario Balotelli missed out as Fabio Quagliarella (Napoli), Vincenzo Iaquinta (Juventus), Antonio Di Natale (Udinese), Marco Borriello (Milan), Alberto Gilardino (Fiorentina) and Giampaolo Pazzini (Sampdoria) were picked.
Lippi omitted his former Juventus player Nicola Legrottaglie despite the defender being included in a recent 29-man training squad.
France coach Raymond Domenech has trimmed his initial 30-man selection down to 24, with Marseille striker Hatem Ben Arfa and Lille goalkeeper Mickael Landreau dropped along with defenders Adil Rami and Rod Fanni, midfielder Yann Mvila and forward Jimmy Briand.
Defender Williams Gallas has been warned by Domenech that he must prove his fitness, having been sidelined since March with a leg injury.
His Arsenal clubmate Samir Nasri missed out on the initial squad, but Gael Clichy, Abou Diaby and Bacary Sagna were included.
Young Real Madrid striker Karim Benzema also failed to pass the first selection obstacle, while the omission of veteran midfielder Patrick Vieira meant Thierry Henry was the only survivor from the 1998 World Cup-winning squad.
Veteran Netherlands striker Ruud Van Nistelrooy has missed out on a place in coach Bert van Marwijk's 30-man, potentially signaling the end of the 33-year-old's international career.
Van Nistelrooy left Real Madrid to join German club Hamburg to revive his hopes following a serious knee injury, but Van Marwijk said the player had not returned to a high enough level to be selected.
"I told him that we have followed him closely and admire his commitment and dedication to get to the World Cup," Van Marwijk told AD Sportwereld.
"I believe that Ruud is fit, but after his lengthy knee injury he does not have time to get back to his old level."
Dutch champions Twente have only two players in the squad, which features 14 overseas-based names.
Feyenoord defender Giovanni van Bronckhorst, 35, has announced he will retire after the month-long tournament.
Portugal coach Carlos Queiroz named a 24-man squad due to doubts over a couple of players including Real Madrid defender Pepe, who has only just returned to training after being sidelined since December.
Goalkeepers Beto and Daniel Fernandes were named as deputies to Braga's Eduardo despite not playing in any of the qualifiers, but there were no other surprises for the 2006 semifinalists, who will be led by Real superstar Cristiano Ronaldo.
Slovakia defender Martin Skrtel, Filip Holosko and fellow striker Robert Vittek were named in a 29-man squad by coach Vladimir Weiss despite their recent injury problems.
Liverpool's Skrtel has not played for three months since breaking a bone in his foot, while Holosko is struggling to get over a broken leg suffered last year and Vittek -- who is also based in Turkey -- has had a knee problem.
Weiss also selected his 20-year-old son and namesake Vladimir of English club Manchester City, who as loaned to Bolton this season.
Serbia coach Radomir Antic named just five home-based players in his 30-man squad, with six from English Premier League clubs including key defender Nemanja Vidic of Manchester United.
Slovenia boss Matjaz Kek kept faith with the players who helped the small East European nation qualify for the second time when he named his 30-man squad.
Denmark coach Morten Olsen picked Thomas Sorensen in his 26-man squad despite the goalkeeper suffered a dislocated elbow on duty with English club Stoke last month.
Olsen, who won more than 100 caps as a player and took Denmark to the 2002 World Cup, gave defender Patrick Mtiliga his first call-up since his debut in November 2008.
Greece coach Otto Rehhagel has picked Christos Patsatzoglou and Giorgos Seitaridis despite the duo's struggles with injuries this season.
The German selected nine overseas-based players including qualifying campaign top scorer Theofanis Gekas of Hertha Berlin, Celtic striker Georgios Samaras and Liverpool defender Sotiris Kyrgiakos.
Switzerland defender Christoph Spycher has pulled out of coach Ottmar Hitzfeld's experienced 23-man squad for the finals after failing to overcome a knee injury.
The 32-year-old, who had already decided to retire from internationals after the tournament, has been replaced by Ludovic Magnin -- one of seven reserve players named by the German.
Hitzfeld has stuck with the likes of Blaise Nkufo of Dutch champions Twente, fellow striker Alexander Frei and midfielder Hakin Yakin, who are all 30 and above.
Defender Philippe Senderos was included despite his lack of action with English club Arsenal, while Sampdoria midfielder Marco Padalino and Kosovo-born Swiss under-21 international Xherdan Shaqiri were also included.
