Movie-makers in Cannes have announced they're making a thriller based on the disappearance of Malaysian flight MH370. The film, being produced by Indian company Rupesh Paul Productions, is to be entitled "The Vanishing Act: The Untold Story of the Missing Malaysian Plane."
Paul told CNN: "The movie is based on an investigative report by a journalist which was rejected by the media so it is definitely controversial. The movie will answer two questions: one is what went wrong with MH370 and where is MH370 on this earth?"
An eight-page pamphlet promoting the movie at Cannes' Marchee du Film (film market) says the "The Vanishing Act tells the story of five people who seek revenge for the death of their loved ones. They hijack a plane. (sic) but things aren't as they appear. The FBI too makes an appearance and things get murkier."
Paul denied making such a film now could be considered offensive to the families of the 239 men, women and children aboard the airliner, which disappeared on March 8. "There are a lot of coincidental similarities between the actual passengers who were travelling in that thing but I think they will not be hurt at all. Definitely not. If we're totally wrong we will be in trouble. I know it is a risk we are taking."
The publicity material goes on to claim the film "will have an international cast with actors from film industries across the world" including "France, Russia, the UK and Korea."and will be "a movie beyond man-made boundaries" and boasts that it will become a "trendsetter."
The movie-makers claim they have recruited a number of leading Hollywood technicians who will bring their experience to the mid-air flight sequences.
CNN has seen a trailer for the movie, comprised of stock footage of Malaysian Airlines planes cut together with scenes of love, jealousy and unrest in the cabin, accompanied by graphics charting a timeline to disaster.
In what appears to be the only hint of sensitivity to the feelings of the missing passengers and their families, a single page of the promo pack is devoted to a picture of a woman writing on a wall covered with messages, under the banner "Pray of MH370."
Paul says investors from India, China and Malaysia itself are on board and will sign contracts at the weekend.
5 most controversial film festival moments
Hunt for plane is most difficult in history
Who has satellite data that shaped search?
