A Yemeni court Monday sentenced to death one of the leaders of the terrorist group al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, Yemen's state-run news agency reported.
Prior to his capture, trial and sentencing, Saleh al-Shawsh had been one of the three most wanted members of the group, an arm of Osama bin Laden's broader terrorist organization formed last year.
The Specialized Criminal Court in the Yemeni capital of Sanaa sentenced al-Shawsh after finding him guilty of killing Yemeni soldiers and attacking oil installations and security checkpoints in the province of Hadramout, reported Saba, the Middle Eastern nation's state-run news agency. Referring to al-Shawsh as a member of an "armed gang," the report said that the incidents he was involved in occurred between 2007 and 2010.
Yemen has become a main battleground for al Qaeda, with the government carrying out air strikes and a ground campaign against the group this weekend.
President Barack Obama's counterterrorism adviser, John Brennan, met the president of Yemen a month ago to discuss al Qaeda and U.S. support for Yemen, the U.S. Embassy announced at the time. Brennan delivered a letter to Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh affirming U.S. support for Yemen, the embassy said.
The Obama  administration is considering adding armed CIA drones to help fight the  increasing threat of al Qaeda in Yemen, a U.S. official said in August.
A  U.S. counterterrorism official told CNN that the administration recognizes  that "not enough is being done in Yemen" to meet the growing challenge  posed by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.
Al Qaeda activity in Yemen grabbed the attention of the West with the Christmas Day attempted bombing of a Northwest Airlines trans-Atlantic flight as it approached Detroit, Michigan.
The suspect, Umar Farouk AbdulMutallab, who has pleaded not guilty to six federal terrorism charges, was reportedly trained and armed in Yemen.
Yemen has launched at least two offensives against the group since then, including one this weekend.
"Yemen's security forces have been in engaged in a ground and air campaign for two days in Abyan province against al Qaeda," a government official told CNN Sunday. CNN is not naming the official, who is not authorized to speak to the press about the campaign.
The official said the battle is fierce and bloody and is part of a larger low-intensity conflict with al Qaeda in the region.
The campaign follows "an attempt by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula to kill the governor and junior regional security officials this past week," the official said.
At least six militants have been killed, the official said, as airstrikes -- which began Saturday and continued on Sunday -- targeted militant gatherings in the province's Lawdar and Moudeya districts.
"Western embassies in Sana'a were put on high security alert -- especially the British and American embassies," the official said, referring to Yemen's capital. "The government of Yemen has increased security outside those embassies and they were heavily fortified in fears of AQAP retaliation."
Tribesmen from Abyan province are supporting the provincial governor after al Qaeda members killed his brother in an ambush aimed at assassinating the governor himself, the official said.
Saturday night, two suicide bombers were killed after their vehicle, which was rigged with explosives, attempted to ram a military motorcade in Moudeya, the official said.
The car exploded after Yemeni forces shot at the suspicious vehicle with high-caliber machine guns.
On Friday, the Interior Ministry offered a reward of 20 million Yemeni riyal (about U.S. $100,000) for information leading to the capture of eight suspected members of al Qaeda in Yemen.
The nation's official Saba news agency identified the eight, urging the public to cooperate and warning citizens not to shelter any of the suspects.
And a wanted al Qaeda in Yemen member turned himself in to Saudi Arabian authorities on Friday, Saudi Arabia's official Saudi Press Agency reported, citing a security spokesman at the country's Ministry of Interior.
The statement added that the man, Jaber bin Jibran bin Ali al-Afifi, a former Guantanamo Bay detainee, had rejoined al Qaeda in Yemen after he had returned from captivity.
In the past week, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula is suspected of being behind three separate attacks that have killed at least two Yemeni security officials, according to a government official.
Last week also saw the release of an audio recording purported to be from Qassim al-Rimi (also known as Abu Hurira al-Sanaei), the leader of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, that was posted on radical militant websites.
The speaker promised that Yemen's President Saleh would be punished "for his crimes" and announced that a new army would rid the country of "crusaders and apostates." CNN could not verify the authenticity of the recording.
CNN's Mohammed Jamjoom contributed to this report.
