(CNN)  -- World No. 1 Rafael Nadal has continued his impressive run of form at Indian Wells with a straight-sets third-round victory over American qualifier Ryan Sweeting.
The 23-year-old Spaniard has dropped just 11 points on his serve in the tournament so far, and took just 68 minutes to brush aside the world No. 105 6-3 6-1 on Monday.
"I played solid," the two-time winner of the Californian hard-court event, who had a first-round bye, told the official ATP Tour website. "I think today the more positive thing is I finished much better than the beginning of the match. In general I'm happy."
The nine-time grand slam champion will meet world No. 84 Somdev Devvarman in the fourth round, after the Indian qualifier secured just his third win in a Masters event with a 6-1 3-6 7-6 (7-5) victory over Belgium's Xavier Malisse.
Djokovic and Federer through to third round
"I have a lot of respect for Nadal," the 26-year-old said. "He's one of my favorite tennis players, one of my idols, so when I'm out there I'm gonna do everything I can to win the match. I'm gonna compete as hard as I can."
It was not such a good day for Swedish world No. 4 Robin Soderling, who made a shock exit from the tournament after being beaten by Germany's Philipp Kohlschreiber.
Two-time French Open finalist Soderling failed to convert five set-points in his 7-6 (10-8) 6-4 loss to the world No. 35, who inflicted just his second defeat of the season.
Next up for Kohlschreiber will be the rejuvenated former world No. 4 and 2009 U.S. Open champion Juan Martin del Potro.
The 90th-ranked Argentine, who spent much of last season sidelined with a wrist injury, continued his comeback with a 7-6 (7-3) 6-3 victory over Australian Open quarterfinalist Alexandr Dolgopolov of the Ukraine.
The United States' Sam Querrey also caused an upset by easily beating Spanish world No. 9 Fernando Verdasco 7-5 6-4.
The 24th-ranked Querrey will face another Spaniard Tommy Robredo in the last 16, after the world No. 28 cruised to a 6-0 6-4 win over American Donald Young -- who eliminated fifth seed Andy Murray in the previous round.
In other third-round results, Spain's Albert Montanes beat compatriot and world No. 12 Nicolas Almagro 4-6 6-2 6-4.
He will next face big-serving Croatian Ivo Karlovic, who knocked out France's Gilles Simon 6-3 6-3.
