Borussia Dortmund restored their seven-point lead over Mainz at the top of the Bundesliga on Saturday after beating bottom-placed Borussia Moenchengladbach 4-1.
Dortmund went a goal down in the 33rd minute when Marco Reus scored for the visitors, but hit back with goals from Serbian defender Neven Subotic and Shinji Kagawa to open up a 2-1 lead.
Two more goals from midfielder Kevin Grosskreutz and Lucas Barrios late in the game wrapped up another impressive win.
Bayern Munich moved up to fifth place as they thrashed Eintracht Frankfurt 4-1 at the Allianz Arena.
Anatoliy Tymoshchuk opened the scoring in the 29th minute for Bayern only for Frankfurt's Theofanis Gekas to cancel it out four minutes later.
But goals in the 59th minute by Thomas Mueller and Mario Gomez two minutes later ensured three points for the home side and Tymoshchuk claimed his second of the match shortly before the final whistle.
The win means the reigning champions are now unbeaten in seven matches but still trail leaders Dortmund by 14 points.
Bayer Leverkusen's 2-2 draw at Hoffenheim sees them lose ground on Mainz -- who beat Nuremberg 3-0 on Friday night. Leverkusen were unlucky not to claim all three points.
A penalty by Gylfi Thor Sigurdsson in the fourth minute of stoppage time added to Vedad Ibisevic 38th minute strike for Hoffenheim and cancelled out two goals from Leverkusen's Sidney Sam and Arturo Vidal early in the first half.
Leverkusen remain in third while Hoffenheim drop to sixth place.
Goals from Jan Schlaudraff, Didier Ya Konen and Mike Hanke earned Hannover a 3-0 home win over Freiburg and leaves them in fourth with 25 points.
Hamburg are seventh after a 4-2 victory over 10-man Stuttgart.
Piotr Trochowski opened the scoring after three minutes for the home side only to see for Ciprian Marica -- who was sent off in the 16th minute -- equalize six minutes later.
Jonathan Pitroipa and Mladen Petric gave Hamburg a two-goal cushion, before Christian Gentner pulled a goal back for Stuttgart.
But Ruud van Nistelrooy scored the hosts' fourth in the 60th minute to make sure of the victory.
In the bottom half of the table, Schalke were beaten 5-0 at Kaiserslautern. The win moved them up to 11th place, while Schalke are 15th.
On Sunday, Werder Bremen take on St Pauli. Wolfsburg travel to Cologne.
