(CNN Student News) -- September 11, 2013
Today, CNN Student News remembers the victims and the events of the worst terrorist attack in U.S. history. We also report on some global reaction to the latest developments regarding Syria's chemical weapons, and we discuss the discoveries of a massive volcano and a lost work of art. Plus, we dive into a debate surrounding a significant swim.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How would you prepare for an interview with a president during an international crisis? Where could you go to get help in formulating your questions?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. 9/11 terrorist attacks
2. extinct volcano
3. strait
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is known about a recent, diplomatic proposal regarding Syria's chemical weapons?
2. Who painted the recently discovered masterpiece "Sunset at Montmajour"?
3. What questions have been raised about Diana Nyad's swim from Cuba to Florida? How have some of these questions been addressed by Nyad's team and others?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you know about the 9/11 terrorist attacks? What questions do you still have about what happened that day? How do you think that those who lost their lives in the 9/11 attacks should be remembered?
2. What is your opinion of the current proposal regarding Syria's chemical weapons? What do you think are some likely outcomes to this situation?
3. What considerations should architects take into account when designing a venue for a major, international sporting event like the Olympics?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
New York City; Washington, D.C.; Shanksville, Pennsylvania
South America
Brazil
Europe
United Kingdom
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
