World No. 2 Adam Scott continued his standout 2013 season by carding a record-breaking final round to win the PGA Grand Slam of Golf in Bermuda.
The Australian finished two shots ahead of U.S. Open champion Justin Rose at the tournament which pits the year's four major winners against each other over two rounds.
Masters champion Scott shot a course record seven-under par closing round of 64 to clinch victory, with an eagle at the par five 17th hole enough to see him edge out world No. 5 Rose.
"It's been fun, but a trying couple of days here really, especially today," Scott told the PGA's website.
"It felt like a long round out there, and standing on the 11th tee, it didn't look like a score like that was going to be possible, but I played very well and managed to slowly claw away at Justin."
PGA Championship winner Jason Dufner finished on three-under at the end of a rain-affected day two, six strokes ahead of defending champion Padraig Harrington on three over.
"A little bit of a slow start today to go with a poor finish yesterday kind of put me behind it," explained Dufner.
"When the sun came out and the rain went away, I played a little bit better. But, I just didn't get a good start, and trying to catch a guy when you're making bogeys, and they are grinding it out, is difficult."
Irishman Harrington took the place of British Open winner Phil Mickelson, who withdrew from the event due to a scheduling conflict.
Meanwhile the PGA of America is reportedly considering staging the PGA Championship, the year's fourth and final major, outside of the U.S..
A commission is said to be investing the effects of staging the tournament, which was held at Oak Hill Country Club in New York this year, on foreign soil.
"We need to push ourselves to think outside the box," the organization's chief executive officer Pete Bevacqua was quoted as saying by Golf Digest magazine.
"What I have said internally is, 'Shame on us if we don't consider it and go through the exercise.'"
The 2019 tournament was recently awarded to the Bethpage Black golf course, meaning the earliest the tournament could be staged outside of America would be 2020.
