(PEOPLE.com) -- The pivotal sex scene in the new "Twilight" film, "Breaking Dawn -- Part 1" is so steamy that the MPAA originally gave the film an R rating, according to its star Kristen Stewart, who says even she was shocked by what her character does between the sheets.
"There are two big sex scenes in the two [final] films, and we did them fairly early," Stewart, 21, tells the U.K. edition of Glamour. "It was so weird, it didn't even feel like we were doing a scene within a 'Twilight' film. I was like, 'Bella! What are you doing? Wow! What is happening here?!' It was very surreal."
Off-screen, Stewart's sex life is also of interest, particularly her relationship with "Twilight" costar Robert Pattinson, which Glamour describes as "likely-but-never confirmed-nor-denied."
Though the actress -- who's currently shooting "Snow White and the Huntsman" -- certainly isn't a fan of such attention, she seems to take it in stride.
"People can say whatever they want," she says, calling the interest "totally understandable. But when it's personal to you, it's like your life becomes a product, and I'm repelled by that. I don't like to give away gems that people are gonna be like, 'Oh my God!' So I'll always just shrug it off. In fact, I always find it kind of funny, and not just with Rob."
Only 17 when she was first cast as Bella Swan in the "Twilight" saga, Stewart says she's finally starting to feel comfortable doing interviews, but that it's "a fair assessment" to say she often comes off as shy and nervous in public.
"I was young, not expecting it and trying way too hard to be 'not fake,' " she says. And as far as the devotion from her fans, Stewart says it's something she can relate to.
"There are definitely people that kind of lose it and get very emotional," she says. "But recently, I met [musician] Jenny Lewis, and I had the most ridiculous experience. I was so embarrassing, I couldn't speak. It was eye-opening, actually."
See the full article at PEOPLE.com.
© 2011 People and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
