American golfer Stacy Lewis banished the ghosts of her nightmare final round at the 2008 U.S. Open when she clinched the Kraft Nabisco Championship by three shots on Sunday.
The 26-year-old, whose grandfather died on the eve of the tournament at Mission Hills in California, claimed the first title of her professional career in the first of four major events in the 2011 women's season.
"Everybody in the family knew that he would have wanted me to finish out this week," she told the LPGA website.
"I mean, he lived via my golf. He loved watching it on TV. He recorded it every week so he could keep watching it over and over again.
"But him and my grandma, they both got to see me play the whole round today and they were out there with me, for sure."
Lewis, who won an unofficial rain-shortened LPGA Tour event as an amateur in her native Arkansas in 2007, had looked set to follow that up three years ago when she led the U.S. Open heading into the last day, but a final-round 78 ended her hopes of glory.
It was a different story this time, though, as the world number 28 overhauled top-ranked defending champion Yani Tseng of Taiwan to finish on 13 under par after a round of 69.
"It doesn't even feel real yet," said Lewis, who turned pro in 2008 four years after having a titanium rod and five screws put in her back to cure her teenage problems with scoliosis. "I don't know. I'm still trying to figure out if I actually won, but I played so good today and I was just proud of the way I hung in there."
The victory was all but assured for Lewis on the 17th hole, when she held a tricky putt while three-time major winner Tseng recorded a bogey.
"Probably the look on my face was I was shocked it went in, too, honestly," said Lewis of her finish on the penultimate hole.
"It was a putt you had to hit on the perfect line with the perfect speed for it to go in."
Tseng, who has won four titles already this year, closed with 74 to finish three shots back.
"I did my best. I tried my best today, and I didn't give her any shots today. So I hung in there until the last putt and smiled the whole way, whole day. So it was good and it was very good experience for me this time," the 22-year-old said.
"Golf is golf, so this is normal. I just didn't play well. And hopefully next tournament will be good, and I just really want to congratulate Stacy. She did really awesome."
American Michelle Wie achieved her first top-10 finish at a major since 2006 after ending the weekend sixth on three-under following a closing 69, leaving the 21-year-old one shot behind third-placed compatriots Katie Futcher, Morgan Pressel and Angela Stanford.
