(CNN Student News) -- November 18, 2013
China is making a change to its highly controversial "one-child" policy. On Monday, CNN Student News tells you what will be different and why. We also report on storms in the U.S. Midwest, and we hear some debate over a meningitis vaccine at Princeton University. Plus, we tell you the story of a five year old who overcame leukemia, became "Batkid," and saved a city with some help from his friends.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How can a reporter remain objective when covering a highly controversial policy of another country?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. labor camp
2. food aid
3. meningitis
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is China's "one-child" policy? How is China changing this policy?
2. What was reported regarding severe weather in the American Midwest yesterday?
3. What is meningitis? What are some causes of this condition?
Discussion Questions:
1. What different perspectives do you think China's citizens might have on their country's "one-child" policy? How might these perspectives compare or contrast to those outside of China? Do you think that the Chinese policy changes described in the show will affect international perspectives on China? Explain.
2. What do you think might be the potential benefits and risks of the meningitis vaccine featured in the report? Why do you think this vaccine is approved in some countries but not in others? If you were a Princeton college student, what questions would you ask officials before deciding whether to get this vaccine?
3. Why do you think that many people volunteered to help make "Batkid's" dream a reality? What impact do you think this had on the child and the community? How would you define a real-life hero?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia; China; Philippines
North America; Princeton University, New Jersey; San Francisco, California
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
