European soccer body UEFA has issued a statement after an 11-year-old boy managed to invade the pitch and pose as a member of Chelsea Football Club's entourage following this week's Europa League Final. He follows a (dis)honorable line of other gatecrashers who between them have blagged their way past security at the White House, the Olympics, the Oscars and even royal parties.
At the 1974 Academy Awards, streaker Robert Opel raced across the stage, prompting presenter and movie star David Niven to quip: "Isn't it fascinating to think that probably the only laugh that man will ever get in his life is for stripping off and showing his shortcomings."
Watch YouTube footage of the incident
Read more: TIME's top 10 odd protests
Meanwhile, Jarvis Cocker, lead singer of British band Pulp, caused a furor at the 1996 Brit Awards in London when he invaded the stage during Michael Jackson's performance of "Earth Song" in protest "at the way Michael Jackson sees himself as some kind of Christ-like figure with the power of healing." Cocker was arrested but later released without charge.
Watch YouTube footage of the incident
In 2003, self-described "comedy terrorist" Aaron Barschak gatecrashed Prince Harry's 21st birthday party at royal residence Windsor Castle, near London, wearing a pink ball gown and fake Osama bin Laden turban and beard. He said he kissed Prince William on both cheeks before being removed: a police report later said the incident had highlighted serious flaws in security.
Read more: Royal gatecrasher -- police blamed
Six years later, in November 2009, U.S. President Barack Obama hosted his first state dinner. Two of the people mingling with those gathered for the dinner in honor of India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh were not on the official guest list: Reality television stars Tareq and Michaele Salahi made their way into the White House despite not having a physical invitation.
Their lawyer Stephen Best told a 2010 congressional hearing into the incident: "They thought they were invited... if it was a misunderstanding, it was a misunderstanding caused by representatives of the government." The couple invoked the fifth amendment in response to most of the lawmakers' questions. As a footnote, Michaele Salahi was later also kicked out of the television show "Celebrity Rehab" for not actually having an addiction.
Read more: Alleged dinner crashers invoke Fifth Amendment
Read more: White house party-crasher booted from 'Celebrity rehab'
Amid the cardinals who flew in for the papal conclave at the Vatican earlier this year, one cut an incongruous figure. His cassock was too short, his sash was purple rather than red and he sported a jaunty fedora amongst the skullcaps. "Basilius" was in fact Ralph Napierski, a German self-declared bishop with the non-existent "Italian Orthodox Church." The pope's Swiss Guards -- themselves known for stand-out apparel -- escorted Napierski away before he could join a top-secret meeting.
Read more: Fake bishop busted and booted from the Vatican
The Indian Olympic team's moment of glory at the 2012 London Games' Opening Ceremony was shared by a mystery woman in a red shirt and blue trousers who waved to the crowd as the delegation marched round the stadium. The woman was later revealed as Madhura Nagendra, who said she was a member of the Opening Ceremony cast.
Nagendra later said she regretted her "error of judgement," telling the Times of India "I have a lot of spirit and courage, I didn't want to hide from the media."
In 2001, British media named Briton Karl Power as the man who had appeared as an extra player in an on-pitch photo of football team Manchester United. The next year, the Guardian newspaper described Power as "possibly Britain's greatest interloper," saying he had also walked out to bat for England, played Wimbledon's Centre Court and taken to the winners' podium at the British Formula 1 Grand Prix.
Dinners, conclaves, sports pitches... what about lives? A number of people have taken on long-term fake identities and in turn seen their stories portrayed on the big screen. Alan Conway -- who impersonated the secretive filmmaker Stanley Kubrick -- gained access to London's exclusive clubs and a number of celebrities' ears. The drama "Color Me Kubrick" tells Conway's tale.
Read Guardian article 'The Counterfeit Kubrick'
Similarly, American David Hampton posed as the son of actor Sidney Poitier to gain access to the homes of New York's elite or to get money. His story was made into a film, "Six Degrees of Separation."
Read more: New York Times obituary
