Arnold Schwarzenegger is on the road a lot, whether he's filming a movie in Bulgaria or presenting awards to ridiculously fit people in Spain. So who better to offer tips on working out while traveling?
It's obvious the former bodybuilding champ has kept in shape. In a video he posted on Instagram on Thursday, Schwarzenegger barely breaks a sweat as he tackles the elliptical and several weight machines in his hotel gym.
"Someone on Reddit asked what it was like for me to train in hotel gyms or other unfamiliar gyms on the road," Schwarzenegger posted. "The answer is: just like it is for you. There is no waiting to train until you have perfect circumstances. I improvise with whatever is available.
"I walk in and my only rule is to keep moving, for a pump and cardio at the same time. Rest as little as possible. After an hour, you will feel fantastic and your muscles won't know what hit them."
The actor trains every day for at least an hour to be in shape for movies like "Escape Plan," which releases in theaters tonight.
A Reddit user posted a link to the Instagram video on the site, and Schwarzenegger, a frequent Reddit contributor, jumped on to offer some more advice.
"The point isn't the machines or the exercises," he wrote. "The point is that you can create a workout for your goals anywhere. Even if you just use a chair for dips, a table for rows and the floor for pushups."
Schwarzenegger said he enjoys working out in unfamiliar gyms, even if sometimes he'd prefer to be at home. "I like shocking my system," he wrote, "so I look at the bright side."
You have to wonder if the bodybuilder-turned actor-turned governor-turned-actor ever gets interrupted during his workout. Occasionally, he said, but mostly people keep to themselves.
Fair warning to fans in New Orleans, where Schwarzenegger is filming "Maggie": The actor said he welcomes people who want to say hello to him while he's resting between sets, but "don't slow me down while I'm working."
Maybe it's just us, but we would never bother someone with these biceps mid-grunt.
Of course, staring at him oddly isn't a good idea either.
"Based on the looks I've been getting in the hotel gym, people think something is seriously wrong with donkey raises," Schwarzenegger posted on Reddit earlier this month, referring to calf exercises that involve bending forward and lifting and lowering your heels. "I can't recommend them enough, though."
