Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger apologized to the club's fans and said he had been "hurt" after his side suffered their worst ever defeat against Manchester United on Sunday.
The Gunners were beaten 8-2 at Old Trafford, with a Wayne Rooney hat-trick, a brace from England winger Ashley Young and goals from Danny Welbeck, Park Ji-Sung and Nani sealing a comprehensive win for the English Premier League champions.
"I can only apologize for the score," Wenger told Arsenal's official web site. "It hurts very much.
"The players go away for two weeks [on international duty] and maybe that is a good thing.
"When they come back we'll have to prepare. Big scores are humiliating and difficult to swallow but I don't think they have a special meaning. They are always under special circumstances."
Later Monday, the north London club announced that fans who attended the match would receive a free ticket to another Arsenal away game in the EPL.
"Sunday's result was obviously disappointing for everyone connected with the club. Our traveling fans were magnificent throughout and we want to recognize their fantastic support. We will be writing to them shortly with the details," read a statement.
The defeat leaves Arsenal -- who were without forward Gervinho and defensive duo Bacary Sagna and Thomas Vermaelen for the United defeat -- with just one point from their opening three matches and languishing in 17th place in the table.
The defeat comes after a controversial start to the season for the London side following the sale of star duo Cesc Fabregas and Samir Nasri to Barcelona and Manchester City respectively.
Despite the 61-year-old French manager signing four new players -- including Ivory Coast's Gervinho and the young trio of Carl Jenkinson, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and Joel Campbell from Charlton, Southampton and Saprissa -- the former Monaco coach has been criticized for not investing in experienced players.
However, Wenger insisted he would spend money if the right players could be found.
"We have to find the right players and if we do we will sign them," he told the BBC ahead of the current transfer closing on September 1.
"We have the money and if we find players to strengthen the team we will do it. If we don't do it, it is because we haven't found them.
"I try to make the right decisions and the two players we sold [Fabregas and Nasri], I brought them to the club. In 15 years I have brought some good players. You know me, so you should give me some more time to see if I have got it completely wrong."
Arsenal's next league match will see them play host to newly-promoted Swansea City on September 10.
