On the morning of June 11, 2012, our lives were changed forever.
Our 18-year-old, 6-foot-5, handsome, athletic, college-bound, artistic son Christian had been found dead from a mixture of dangerous synthetic drugs given to him at a house party. The drugs were later identified as 2C-C-NBOMe and 25I-NBOMe, (also called 2C-I-NBOMe) very powerful and lethal synthetic drugs.
While we were planning Christian's funeral, across the river in East Grand Forks, Minnesota, 17-year-old Elijah Stai was given a lethal dose of 25I-NBOMe from the same source of drugs that killed Christian. The drugs had been mixed with melted chocolate.
The federal government called the investigation Operation Stolen Youth and a joint task force would trace the 25I-NBOMe all the way to its source in Houston, where it had been imported from overseas, sold online, sent to North Dakota, killing two teens and causing serious bodily harm to a handful of other teens here.
Until the death of our son, we knew very little about synthetic designer drugs.
We have been horrified to learn about the serious injuries, thousands of calls to poison control, increased emergency room visits, severe psychotic states and deaths that have resulted from their use and the ineffective and outdated state and federal laws that made it possible for many of these drugs to be sold in retail stores and online.
America is at war with synthetic drugs. Sadly, the majority of Americans don't know about synthetic drugs or that the war is in their own homes via the Internet or at the corner tobacco store.
In 2009, when our son was in the ninth grade, the DEA had just a few synthetic drugs identified. By the end of 2012, over 158 new synthetic drugs were identified and currently, more than 300 drugs are known.
What you need to know about synthetic drugs
Synthetic drugs on the streets are industrial grade chemicals made-to-order in overseas laboratories. Most of these drugs have never been tested on humans -- they are poison. As in our son's case, dealers don't disclose they are selling or handing out dangerous chemicals, instead they call it "acid" or "mushroom" and teens usually don't know what it is.
We miss our son beyond words, and in his memory, we have fought for change to protect other lives.
We testified at the North Dakota Board of Pharmacy hearing to enact an emergency ban and at the state legislative and state Senate hearings to change state law.  After 19 reported deaths caused by 25I-NBOMe in the United States, the DEA in November of 2013 added the drug to the controlled substance list.
This dangerous drug will be illegal at least until next year. To make it a permanent controlled substance, everyone needs to contact their state and federal government representatives.
We have learned that bereaved parents not for one second of one day ever forget the child they lost, so it's OK to talk to us about our son.  Every area of our lives has been affected: our family, our jobs, our friends and our entire belief structure.
When we meet someone for the first time, we ask whether they have children and our second question is if they know about synthetic drugs.
There is too much apathy in America regarding drugs. Drugs are not someone else's problem -- it affects all of society. We need to stop blaming the victim. The night my son died, two other teens were also injured. Many teens don't understand the risks involved and often try drugs because of peer pressure. And when things go wrong, some don't call for help because they don't want to get in trouble.
The only way to stop further deaths is for everyone to be knowledgeable about the dangers.
Parents share memories and warnings
If you are reading, this please spread the word and help save lives! Educate yourself and your kids, and participate in changing your state laws to protect teens and young adults who are most at risk. Advocate for Good Samaritan laws that grant immunity from criminal prosecution to those seeking medical help for someone experiencing an overdose. Our first priority is to save human lives.
Parents please supervise the activities in your own home and teach your kids to call for help. Other drugs and drug paraphernalia were found at the house where my son was given the drugs.
Recently we attended an emotional award ceremony at the United State Attorney's Office in Fargo, North Dakota, to honor one of the special agents for his work in Operation Stolen Youth. My husband, with tears in his eyes, said it could have been called Operation Christian's Heroes.
We saw the Department of Justice Seal on the wall inscribed with a Latin motto emphasizing justice. Our son was a Latin scholar, in that moment we felt like Christian was there with us.
We love you more than the sky, Son!
Keith and Debbie
