Mark Foster fired a six-under-par 66 in foggy conditions to lead the Johnnie Walker Championship at Gleneagles and keep his Seve Trophy hopes alive.
The 36-year-old Englishman is keen to take part in the team tournament, named after Spanish legend Seve Ballesteros, when Britain and Ireland take on Continental Europe in September.
Foster beat Tiger Woods in the amateur Walker Cup 16 years ago and his impressive round in Scotland kept him on course for a return to team competition.
"I've been trying hard all year to make it and if it comes around it will be a massive thing for me," he told the European Tour's official web site.
Foster fired eight birdies and two bogeys in foggy conditions to lead by a shot from Spaniard Ignacio Garrido and Tano Goya, from Argentina.
Foster came close to winning both the BMW International and French Open in recent months and lost out on the 2010 Open de Espana by dropping two shots in the final two holes.
"I learned a lot from that," he said. "I would say I lost that tournament through nerves really, just not controlling myself.
"But I think it took that week for me to be able to play the way I've been playing at the moment, where I have more belief in myself and know I can do it. I think I'm a better person and a better player."
Play began over two hours later than scheduled because of the fog, meaning not all of the field managed to finish their opening round.
Garrido did, though, and was pleased to be sitting just one off the lead.
He said: "I think anything under par around here is a good score. Today the course is playing long, with all of the rain, the ball was running nothing, so it was quite long.
"I think the key was that I played very solid, just hit most of the fairways, most of the greens, and took my chances. I never really got in trouble and that's probably what is the main thing to do here."
Europe's 2010 Ryder Cup captain Colin Montgomerie finished on one-under while Jose Maria Olazabal, who will take over the role in 2012, ended on one-over.
