One of the victims Jerry Sandusky was convicted of sexually abusing has filed a lawsuit against Penn State University, accusing the school of concealing the abuse.
Attorneys for the boy the grand jury identified as "Victim 1" filed the lawsuit Friday, claiming the university was more concerned with "protecting the reputation and commercial viability of its football program" than rooting out a sexual predator of children.
It further accused ousted Penn State President Graham Spanier, head football coach Joe Paterno, and former administrators Tim Curley and Gary Schultz of knowing that "Sandusky was a dangerous, sociopathic sexual predator who had previously raped, sodomized, and/or otherwise seriously harmed young boys on the Penn State campus, and who was substantially likely to continue to engage in similar conduct in the future."
The plaintiff was identified as 18-year-old "John Doe C," who said during earlier court proceedings that Sandusky had repeatedly performed oral sex on him when he was a minor.
Penn State to host sex abuse conference
"The university takes these cases very seriously but cannot otherwise comment on pending litigation," school spokesman David La Torre said. "President Erickson and the Board of Trustees have publicly emphasized that their goal is to find solutions that rest on the principle of justice for the victims."
Sandusky, a former assistant football coach at the university, was convicted in June of sexually abusing 10 boys over a 15-year period. He continues to maintain his innocence.
Former FBI Director Louis Freeh released a 267-page university-funded report last month that blamed Spanier, Paterno, Curley and Schultz for taking part in a cover-up to avoid bad publicity.
The report has been criticized for its limited scope: Neither graduate assistant Mike McQueary -- who reported seeing Sandusky abuse one boy -- nor Sandusky or Paterno, who died in January, were interviewed by Freeh's investigators.
Spanier, Curley and Schultz could not be immediately reached for comment Saturday.
Curley and Schultz still face felony perjury counts amid accusations of lying to a grand jury and failing to report suspected child abuse. They have pleaded not guilty.
Attorneys for Spanier on Wednesday blasted the review, calling it a "blundering, indefensible indictment" and "a flat-out distortion of facts" that was "infused with bias and innuendo."
