(CNN)  -- India's women claimed an historic gold medal in the 4x400m relay at the Commonwealth Games in New Delhi on Tuesday, as women's 100m champion Osayemi Oludamola was officially stripped of her title.
A packed Jawarhalal Nehru Stadium witnessed India's women collect their first-ever track gold, shocking race favorites Nigeria and England in the process.
But India's joy was tempered by the confirmation that Nigerian Oludamola was formally disqualified after testing positive for the banned stimulant methylhexanamine.
That decision resulted in Natasha Mayers of St Vincent and The Grenadines,  who herself served a two-year drug ban from 2005,  being promoted to the gold medal position with England's Kathryn Endacott taking silver and Bertille Atangana of Cameroon awarded the bronze.
And Nigeria were hit with more doping controversy on Tuesday when 24-year-old Oludamola's teammate, Samuel Okon, also tested positive for the same substance following his sixth position in the men's 110m hurdles.
Elsewhere on the track, Kenya completed their domination of the distance races with world champion Vivian Cheruiyot winning the women's 5,000m and Silas Kiplagat taking the men's 1,500m.
Those results meant Kenya won eight out of the 10 races over 800m with Ugandan Moses Kipsiro taking the other two -- the men's 5,000m and 10,000m.
England won the men's 4x100m relay gold medal ahead of Jamaica, with India claiming bronze, while England's women also secured sprint relay gold, with Ghana and India completing the podium.
And Australia won the final track event, the men's 4x400m relay, ahead of Kenya and England.
In the other field events, Nigeria's Tosin Oke leapt 17.16m to win the men's triple jump while Australia won the men's javelin (Jarrod Bannister) and women's pole vault (Alana Boyd).
On a great day for India, the hosts also defeated England 5-4 on penalties to reach the men's hockey final for the first time in their history, after they had fought back from 3-1 down to draw 3-3.
India are now through to meet three-time winners Australia in the final on Thursday.
New Zealand won a record fourth consecutive gold in rugby sevens, defeating rivals Australia 24-17 in a tight final. South Africa beat England 17-14 in the bronze medal match.
Meanwhile, Canadian diver Alexandre Despatie won his third gold of the Games, and ninth of his career, after he and compatriot Reuben Ross won the men's 3m springboard synchro title.
The current medals table sees Australia well clear on 68 golds, with India on 32 and England back in third place on 30.
