She stumbled into the business naked, bleeding and burned.
And in desperate need of help.
This 16-year-old girl thankfully got it, and more than a month later is in good condition at a hospital and undergoing rehab, Charles City County, Virginia, sheriff's Capt. Jayson Crawley said.
And the man accused of doing this to her? Authorities say they think he is now in custody in Maryland, where he was caught coming out of a vehicle with a woman he'd allegedly abducted Sunday night in Philadelphia.
The suspect in both cases is Delvin Barnes, 37.
Talking about Barnes, Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey said authorities "don't know much (about him) other than the fact he's a thug and this is what he does, apparently."
"People like this, there's nothing that makes sense," Ramsey told reporters. "Don't even try to find it."
Abducted Philadelphia woman found alive
Official: Teen doused with gas, bleach, set on fire
There's no way of avoiding the horror, however, of what at least two young women endured about 275 miles away and just over a month from each other.
The Virginia teen went missing first, with her family calling the Charles City County Sheriff's Office on October 1.
Her nightmare began when, she later told police, the teenager was hit in the head with a shovel and stuffed into the trunk of a car, according to Crawley.
The girl told police that her abductor took her to his parents' house in Charles City County and sexually assaulted her. (Barnes' parents don't remember whether they were home at the time, the sheriff's captain said.)
He then showed her pictures of other girls, claiming he'd done the same thing to them, according to the 16-year-old.
Two days later, the suspect allegedly brought the then-naked girl into the backyard, poured bleach and gasoline on her, burned her clothes and dug a hole.
"How do you want to die?" he asked, the teenager told police.
When he got distracted, the girl fled into the woods. Two miles away, employees at a Charles City County business spotted her and brought her inside, Crawley explained.
She was suffering from third-degree burns, but she was alive.
Chief calls Barnes 'a vicious predator'
DNA from the victim was put into a national database to try to find her abductor. On October 28, that test matched with Barnes -- the same man the teenage girl ID'd from a photo lineup of mug shots, according to Crawley.
After all, Barnes had been in jail before.
Crawley said that Barnes had an extensive criminal history, and an online public records search bears that out.
It shows dozens of charges from over the years, from traffic infractions to use of a firearm in a robbery to aggravated assault and false imprisonment.
Then there are the charges of attempted capital murder, abduction, forcible rape, malicious wounding and malicious wounding using a chemical, in the Virginia case.
The latest allegation comes from Philadelphia, one of a few places (along with Charles City, Virginia Beach and Richmond in Virginia) where Barnes has lived.
That's where video, released by police, showed 22-year-old Carlesha Freeland-Gaither walking just blocks from her home when she is brought to the ground and forced into a vehicle Sunday.
Her glasses and cell phone drop onto the road during the struggle. But, even after she breaks out a passenger's side window, her efforts prove futile as the car pulls away.
As with the Virginia case in October, authorities don't believe the victim knew her abductor.
Freeland-Gaither and Barnes were found three days later in Jessup, Maryland, 15 miles southwest of Baltimore.
A big reason authorities managed to track them down had do with Barnes' past, but not the criminal variety.
A car dealer who had sold the vehicle allegedly used in Freeland-Gaither's abduction tipped off authorities after recognizing Barnes from a surveillance video released by police, Ramsey said. The dealer had placed a GPS in the car because of worries about Barnes' bad credit, according to Crawley.
Videos, tips lead authorities to alleged abductor
Following his arrest, Barnes was booked into the Baltimore County detention center in Towson at 3:40 a.m. Thursday. He waived his extradition to Virginia. Barnes is scheduled to make an appearance in court November 12, according to Crawley.
The Philadelphia police commissioner hopes Barnes will always be in the sights of law enforcement.
"He's a vicious predator. He's off the streets. And hopefully he'll be in jail for the rest of his life," Ramsey said. "That's the only thing he deserves."
CNN's Tina Burnside, Jean Casarez, Lawrence Crook III, Chuck Johnston and Mary Kay Mallonee contributed to this report.
