(CNN Student News) -- October 29, 2013
A pair of anniversaries are covered on Tuesday's program. We examine the impact of the 1929 stock market crash, and one year after the landfall of "Superstorm" Sandy, we explore the science behind its powerful storm surge and the resiliency of some of its victims. Plus, we report on a powerful storm in the United Kingdom, and we discuss Russia's preparations for the Winter Olympics.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
To what extent are anniversaries of major events newsworthy? What factors might contribute to coverage of news anniversaries?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. resilience
2. stock market crash
3. Winter Olympics
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. How might the angle at which a storm makes landfall affect its severity?
2. According to the researcher interviewed in the report, what factors promote resilience in individuals?
3. What city is hosting the 2014 Winter Olympic Games? How is the city preparing for these Olympics? What challenges does it face?
Discussion Questions:
1. How might people in a storm's path react differently to a hurricane warning than they might to a post-tropical cyclone warning? How do you think forecasters should address this when reporting on an approaching storm? What are some things meteorologists might look for to determine the characteristics of a particular storm? How might they use this kind of information?
2. Why do you think the 1929 stock market crash had such a massive impact on the U.S. economy? How might the news media have covered the crash in 1929? How would that have been different from the way the crash is remembered by today's media?
3. What might be the benefits and challenges of hosting a Winter Olympic Games? In what ways might this be different from hosting the Summer Olympics?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Europe
United Kingdom
Russia
North America
New Jersey; New York City
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
