London's Metropolitan Police have opened investigations into the deaths of three young boys, a probe that is tied to "allegations of serious and organized sexual abuse," it announced Thursday.
In a statement, detectives involved in Operation Midland, an investigation launched last month into sexual abuse dating back more than 30 years ago, pleaded for the public's help in tracking down victims, witnesses and assailants.
"Today I want to appeal directly to those other young boys, now men, who were also subject to abuse at the hands of these men," Detective Superintendent Kenny McDonald said. "I believe that there were other boys who were abused, or who were present whilst the abuse took place."
In addition to sex abuse, McDonald said that his team "is also investigating the possible murder of three young boys."
"Our work is ongoing, and we are examining reports of missing people from that time," he added. "To date, we have not recovered any bodies."
The abuse is believed to have taken place over at least a decade, at various locations across London and the counties surrounding the capital, including military premises, the police statement said.
One site for the alleged abuse is the Dolphin Square estate, an apartment complex in Pimlico, central London.
"One witness, known as Nick (not his real name) has spoken to us. He has said he was abused from the age of seven until he was 16, from 1975-1984," said McDonald.
"Some of the abuse took place at a flat on the Dolphin Square estate. However I can't rule out this was the only flat used."
Nick has told police how a car would be sent to collect him and drive him to the apartment in Dolphin Square, McDonald said.
"The abuse he has detailed that he was subjected to was carried out by a man on his own, a group of men, or during what have been described as 'parties,'" the officer said.
Police want to speak to anyone who lived in the area from the early 1970s onwards and may have seen something that they now realize could be significant to this investigation, McDonald said.
Detectives are in touch with the families of two boys, one who disappeared in 1979 and another who vanished and then was found murdered in 1981, but it is not yet possible to say if those two cases are linked to the current investigation, he added.
