(CNN Student News) -- November 14, 2013
On World Diabetes Day, CNN Student News examines the disease and its risks, and we meet a NASCAR driver whose diabetes diagnosis didn't send his career off track. We also report on initial Obamacare enrollment statistics, and we hear about a message that the first lady has for students. Plus, we discuss the most talked-about person on the internet.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
To what extent might media coverage broaden the scope of a religious leader's work?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Pope Francis
2. first lady of the United States
3. diabetes
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What was said in yesterday's congressional hearing regarding the Obamacare website? What do enrollment numbers look like for Obamacare? How do these numbers contrast with the government's initial expectations?
2. What have been some issues promoted by former first ladies? What issues has Michelle Obama promoted? What advice did she recently give to a group of high school students?
3. What are some reasons and treatments for diabetes? How does NASCAR driver Ryan Reed deal with his diabetes while racing?
Discussion Questions:
1. In your view, what options might Congress and the White House have regarding Obamacare? What do you think will happen next regarding this controversial law?
2. Do other countries have a responsibility to help a nation that is overwhelmed by a natural disaster? What might be the benefits and challenges of providing relief aid to another country?
3. Why do you think that organizations declare a day in the name of a disease, like World Diabetes Day? In your view, what impact(s) might this have?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Philippines
Europe
Vatican City
North America
Washington, D.C.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
