The 2014 Soul Train Music Awards had something for just about everyone.
The show aired Sunday and had not only reunions but some meme-worthy moments. Talk show host Wendy Williams served as the mistress of ceremonies for the event, which included a medley from singer Chris Brown.
But the word for the night was "throwback" as acts from the past took to the stage at the Orleans Arena in Las Vegas.
One of the main draws was the reunion of 1990s R&B group Jodeci. Original members brothers K-Ci and Jojo Hailey and brothers Devante and Dalvin DeGrate performed some of their hits and debuted a new song, "Nobody Wins," with B.o.B.
But the Internet quickly fell in love with Devante's hairstyle: a little side ponytail, reminding some of the photo on a popular African-American hair care product, Just for Me. "Devante what happened??" one viewer tweeted.
Singer Eric Benet offered an assist for the reunion of rappers Lil Kim, Missy Elliott and Da Brat along with girl group Total for a performance of '90s hit "Not Tonight (Ladies Night Remix)." It included a tribute to late TLC singer Lisa "Left Eye" Lopes.
Oh, and there were some awards handed out during the festivities. Beyonce snagged best R&B/Soul female artist as well as album of the year, and Pharrell Williams took home song of the year and video of the year for "Happy."
Here is a list of the winners:
Best New Artist
Nico & Vinz
Centric Certified Award
Leela James
Best Gospel/Inspirational Song
Erica Campbell feat. Lecrae, "Help"
Best Hip-Hop Song of the Year
Chris Brown feat. Lil Wayne & Tyga, "Loyal"
Best R&B/Soul Female Artist
Beyonce
Best R&B/Soul Male Artist
Trey Songz
Album of the Year
Beyonce, "Beyonce"
Song of the Year
Pharrell Williams, "Happy"
The Ashford and Simpson Songwriter's Award
John Legend (Toby Gad, John Stephens, Dave Tozer), "All of Me"
Best Dance Performance
Chris Brown feat. Lil Wayne & Tyga, "Loyal"
Best Collaboration
Chris Brown feat. Lil Wayne & Tyga, "Loyal'"
Video of the Year
Pharrell Williams, "Happy"
Best Traditional Jazz Performance
Wynton Marsalis, "Flee as A Bird to the Mountain (Live)"
Best Contemporary Jazz Performance
Liv Warfield, " 'Stay'/'Soul Lifted' "
Best Independent R&B/Soul Performance
Joe feat. Kelly Rowland, "Love & Sex Pt. 2"
