January 23, 2014
Stories from Switzerland to China headline today's edition of CNN Student News, as we cover subjects involving civil war and media rights. Afterward, a firefighter shares an idea for an app that could help save lives, though the technology has limitations. And an ice sculptor creates what could be the coolest orchestra ever.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Where would you go to get information about a country's human rights record?  How might you determine the credibility of this information?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  Geneva
2.  activist
3.  censor
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1.  Why are diplomats from around the world gathered in Geneva, Switzerland?  How would you describe the current situation in Syria?
2.   According to the video: What does China's constitution say about freedom of the press? What does it say about the power of the state? What happened when CNN reporters tried to cover the trial of a prominent Chinese activist in Beijing?
3.   What are some tasks that firefighter Patrick Johnson wants Google Glass to do?  What are some limitations of the technology when it comes to firefighting?
Discussion Questions:
1.  In your opinion, what solutions might be generated for Syria from the conference in Geneva?  Why do you think that officials there are not expecting a breakthrough regarding this conflict?
2.  Why do you think the city of Geneva is known as the "world's negotiating table"?  How do you think that the city of Geneva has maintained its reputation for neutrality?  Why do you think that a neutral site is important in sensitive negotiations?
3.  How would you categorize China's type of government?  What do you know about this form of government?  How does it differ from the type of government you live under?  Why do you think that China's government might want to control information about activists who speak out against it?
4.  Do you use any software or apps that help you in your daily life?  If so, what are they?  Do you have any ideas for an app that could improve a person's quality of life, or even possibly save lives?  Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
