Former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin was in Haiti on Sunday, urging the U.S government and other Americans to do more to help the earthquake-ravaged country.
"Not to get political, but if some of the politicians would come here and see the conditions perhaps they would see the need for, say, a military airlift to bring the supplies that are so needed here," she said.
Palin spoke at a brief press conference at a warehouse owned by the Samaritan's Purse organization north of Port-au-Prince.
"(I) don't want Americans to forget the need that is here," she said. "More importantly, for Americans and people across the world to know what an individual can do to make a difference, to contribute, to kind of get out of your comfort zone and volunteer to help."
Palin praised Samaritan's Purse for "doing God's work." Samaritan's Purse describes itself on its website as "a nondenominational evangelical Christian organization providing spiritual and physical aid to hurting people around the world."
Palin said she would not take questions from reporters. "The reason I won't be answering questions is because we don't need to be getting political here today," Palin said.
The former Republican vice-presidential nominee thanked her husband and daughter Bristol for joining her on the trip and said she hopes Bristol could help raise awareness of Haiti's needs among young people.
As she was whisked off the makeshift stage to her waiting car, Palin answered one question from CNN's Gary Tuchman, who asked what was different from what she expected to find in Haiti.
"Much harsher than I had expected, the conditions are much rougher," Palin replied.
Palin is widely thought to be considering a run for president in 2012.
Her visit comes as Haiti is fighting a massive cholera outbreak that has killed more than 2,000 people and sickened nearly 100,000.
The country has been struggling to recover from January's massive earthquake that left more than 220,000 dead.
A disputed presidential election has threatened to plunge the country into further chaos.
