(CNN)  -- Three inmates who escaped from prison in Indiana last week then allegedly stole a truck, money and guns were captured Thursday in Nebraska after a high-speed car chase, authorities said.
The three escapees, (from left) Jerry Sargent, Christopher Marshall and Bobby Cockerell, were captured in Nebraska.
Nebraska State Patrol spokesman Mike Meyer said officers apprehended Christopher Marshall, Jerry Sargent and Bobby Cockerell in Alliance, Nebraska, after a nearly 60-mile chase with speeds reaching up to 100 mph.
According to Meyer, law enforcement officers tried twice to spike the tires of the minivan the men were traveling in.
They succeeded on the second try about five miles east of Alliance, but the suspects kept driving on flat tires until they were inside the city limits.
The men started running when the vehicle stopped. Two were caught, but the third tried to carjack a vehicle at gunpoint before being arrested by an Alliance Police officer, according to Meyer. It is not yet known which escapee tried to take the vehicle at gunpoint.
No shots were fired and no one was seriously injured, Meyer said.
The three men broke out of the Branchville Correctional Facility near Tell City, Indiana, last week, authorities said. Tell City is about 80 miles west of Louisville, Kentucky.
Police believe the three stole guns during a home-invasion robbery in Sanders, Kentucky, earlier this week.
New arrest warrants charge them with possessing stolen firearms as well as felony possession of firearms, said George Huffman, spokesman for the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Because they were convicted of violent crimes, he said, they are not allowed to possess firearms at all.
Police suspect the three of stealing a truck from a town near the prison and robbing three brothers in Sanders, about 65 miles east of Louisville, early Monday. The brothers were attacked, bound and held in their home for about an hour and a half while their assailants made off with guns and money, according to the Kentucky State Police.
One of the three brothers was hospitalized after the attack, while the other two were treated and released.
CNN's Melissa Roberts contributed to this report.
