(The Frisky) -- Breaking the hearts of "Transformers"-loving men everywhere, Megan Fox and Brian Austin Green tied the knot at the Four Seasons in Hawaii last weekend. During their first engagement, Green had said, "Originally we were talking elopement and now we might have a few people there."
I understand that celebrities want to keep everything under wraps so they don't have to deal with paparazzi helicopters drowning out their vows, but come on -- give us a little something.
The Frisky: 10 stars who (maybe) have secret babies
Alanis Morissette got secretly married to rapper Souleye in May in an intimate ceremony at their shared home. And it was another two weeks before anyone heard about it!
Gisele Bündchen and Tom Brady got married in a tiny ceremony in Santa Monica. Apparently, Gisele and her three dogs were all wearing Dolce & Gabbana and the ceremony was so secretive that the guests didn't know it was a wedding -- many of them thought it was a christening! I wonder if Tom's ex, Bridget Moynahan, was under that impression when she arrived with Brady's son, John Edward Thomas Moynahan?
The Frisky: Angelina Jolie says "yes" daughter Shiloh wants to be a boy
Jason Lee keeps breaking my heart -- first with the Scientology, and then with marriage! In July 2008, the actor married Ceren Alkac in a secret wedding, which was followed a month later by their less-secret baby daughter.
It was kind of cute when Mandy Moore and Ryan Adams got married in Savannah, Georgia. The couple broke up briefly after Adams said he couldn't deal with the cameras, but I guess they compromised by dropping off the radar. Moore said of her hubby, "He's a good egg. I'm in awe of him: his brain, his passion. He's truly one of a kind.
The Frisky: Stars who ended their relationships to chase fame
"Iron Man" co-star Terrence Howard was quietly married to Michelle Ghent-Howard last January but didn't spill the beans until the Cannes Film Festival, when he said, "To come here and be with my wife, it's the best feeling in the world." And everyone was all, "Your what?" The actor was married to his ex-wife for 13 years and has three children. He was at the festival promoting "Winnie," the biopic of Nelson Mandela's wife, in which he stars opposite Jennifer Hudson.
In 2008, Jessica Alba and Cash Warren managed to have a hush-hush marriage in the Beverly Hills courthouse. There were no guests at the wedding aside from the courthouse staff that filed their marriage license paperwork. In fact, Alba's brother didn't find out until Us Weekly called him for comment.
The Frisky: 8 celebrity guys describe their dream woman
Renee Zellweger and Kenny Chesney surprised a lot of people when they got married in 2005. The secret wedding took place on a hilltop on St. John in the Virgin Islands with 35 guests, four months after meeting each other. Unfortunately, they got divorced about a year later.
It took six months for Beyoncé to even talk about her secret wedding to Jay-Z. She told "Essence" magazine that people put "too much emphasis" on engagement rings, adding, "It's just material and it's just silly to me." The couple got matching ring finger tattoos of the Roman numeral IV, for both of their birthdays and their wedding day was on the 4th of a month, and Beyoncé had a $5 million 18-carat diamond wedding ring to put over hers. The wedding was small and intimate, Beyoncé said because, "It's been my day so many days already."
The Frisky: 10 famous men stayed with their mistresses
Scarlett Johansson and Ryan Reynolds married in 2008 in a "very remote part of Canada." Scarlett said, "Where we got married there were bears and whales and eagles... I never thought that I'd be planning my wedding in a dark alley somewhere, but it turned out that way. It was really quite secretive and I felt like I was doing a drug deal without all the fun." I'm still not sure what the point of being a super attractive couple is if you never ever get photographed together.
TM & © 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
