Manchester City moved up to second place in the English Premier League on Tuesday night after an emphatic 3-0 win over city rivals Manchester United at Old Trafford.
Two goals from Edin Dzeko and a late strike from Yaya Toure eased Manuel Pellegrini's title chasers to within three points of leaders Chelsea while consigning United to a 10th league defeat this season.
City carried on where Liverpool had left off nine days ago, running wild through United's defense from the kick-off.
Home fans must have feared a cricket score when Dzeko scored after 44 seconds -- redirecting the ball into the net after Samir Nasri's shot had rebounded off the post.
The Bosnian striker should have made it 2-0 in the 18th minute but produced a tame shot which was comfortably palmed away by United goalkeeper David De Gea.
As the half wore on United came back into the game but created little in front of goal.
The break only served to re-energize the visitors who buzzed around with purpose in the final third and it wasn't long before their lead was doubled.
Nasri's corner was met superbly by Dzeko in the 55th minute who coolly side-footed a volley past a flailing De Gea.
United tried in vain to half the deficit but with a minute remaining Yaya Toure delivered the hammer blow, making space on the edge of United's penalty area before sweeping a low shot into the bottom left corner.
City now have 66 points and trail leaders Chelsea by three points, but have two games in hand on Jose Mourinho's side.
United, meanwhile, are 15 points behind city with 51 points from 31 games. A top four finish looks increasingly unlikely.
In the Premier League's other two fixtures on Tuesday, Arsenal could only manage a 2-2 draw against Swansea City at the Emirates.
Wilfried Bony gave the visitors an 11th minute lead before two second-half strikes in two minutes -- Lukas Podolski followed by Olivier Giroud -- put the Gunners ahead with a quarter-of-an-hour to play.
But disaster struck in the shape of a Mathieu Flamini own goal in injury time to see Arsene Wenger's side lose further ground on the leaders following a 6-0 mauling at Stamford Bridge last Saturday.
Arsenal have 63 points from 31 games and remain in fourth. Swansea stay in 15th and now have 30 points.
David Moyes' old side, Everton continue to thrive under new manager Roberto Martinez.
The Toffees eased to a 3-0 win over Newcastle at St James' Park -- a result that sees them rise to fifth on 57 points, one point ahead of Tottenham Hotspur.
Third-place Liverpool play Sunderland at Anfield on Wednesday.
Read more: Bayern Munich clinch Bundesliga title
Read more: Teen star cleared to make U.S. debut
