(CNN Student News) -- September 19, 2013
Economic stories take center stage in Thursday's program, as we report on a milestone for U.S. gas prices, we discuss a decision from the Federal Reserve, and we examine the percentage of Americans living in poverty. We also hear how a civil rights activist is promoting his message against sagging pants, and we share some students' methods for coping with a bad day.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What might be the pros and cons of using billboards to convey a message to young people? How might the effectiveness of billboards compare to that of other media?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Federal Reserve Bank
2. poverty line
3. disaster declaration
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What are some reasons given as to why gas prices have been higher than $3 since December 2010?
2. What did the Federal Reserve decide to do yesterday?
3. What U.S. state is known as the "Land of Enchantment"?
Discussion Questions:
1. What might be the effects of sustained, $3 gas prices on individuals, businesses, and the economy as a whole? How might people deal with these effects?
2. What factors do you think might be contributing to the U.S. poverty rate? What might have contributed to lower-paying jobs in the wake of the "Great Recession"? In your view, is there anything individuals could do to put themselves in the market for higher-paying jobs? If so, what? If not, why not?
3. What different perspectives might young people have regarding the anti-saggy pants billboard? What is your opinion on wearing saggy pants? To what extent might one person's appearance affect how others perceive his or her character?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Mexico
Colorado; New Mexico; Memphis, Tennessee
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
