The intricate lace and embroidery of Catherine Middleton's wedding dress wowed millions as they watched her walk down the aisle with Prince William. Now, almost three months later, there's a chance for royal wedding fans to take a closer look.
The ivory and white satin gown and nine-foot train, designed by Sarah Burton for the Alexander McQueen fashion house, is on display at Buckingham Palace from Friday to October 3, as part of the palace's annual summer opening.
Visitors will be able to admire close-up the handiwork of the Royal School of Needlework, which made the lace applique for the bodice and skirt by hand, using techniques dating back almost two centuries. The design incorporates the rose, thistle, shamrock and daffodil, to represent each nation in the United Kingdom.
The Duchess of Cambridge's ivory duchess satin and lace wedding shoes and her silk-tulle veil are also on show at the palace, in central London, presented by the Royal Collection -- a trust which looks after royal art, jewellery and valuables for the nation.
And her bridal bouquet -- which included lily of the valley, Sweet William, hyacinth, myrtle and ivy -- has been recreated from artificial flowers for the display.
The diamond drop earrings she wore on the day can also be seen. Commissioned by her parents as a personal gift for the occasion, the design was inspired by the Middleton family's new coat of arms.
The ensemble prompted the prince to say "you look beautiful," as his bride arrived at the altar on the arm of her father Michael on April 29.
The duchess worked closely with designer Burton to create the dress, which was the subject of months of speculation in fashion circles in the months leading up to the wedding.
For those more interested in food, the duke and duchess's eight-tier fruit wedding cake, created by cake designer Fiona Cairns, is on show in the palace's state dining room, the Royal Collection said.
The top three tiers have been made again for the display, as the couple sliced the original third tier to serve to guests and kept the top two tiers for themselves.
The summer opening tour of Buckingham Palace also includes its 19 state rooms and a walk along the south side of the palace garden.
