England batsman Kevin Pietersen ensured his place in cricket's history books with an unbeaten double-century on day two of the sport's 2,000th Test match.
Pietersen passed 200 for the second time in his international career to allow England to declare on an imposing 474-8 at Lord's on Friday, while India reached 17-0 in reply at stumps in the opening match of the series.
With much focus on Indian veteran Sachin Tendulkar's bid to become the first player to score his 100th century at international level in such a historic match, Pietersen stole the spotlight as he resumed on 22 after a rain-affected opening day in London.
The 31-year-old hit 21 fours and one six from 326 deliveries faced against an Indian bowling line-up missing spearhead Zaheer Khan, who suffered a hamstring injury on Thursday.
"It was quite nice from 150 to 200, but to get there was a mission," said Pietersen, who survived an early scare when it appeared he had been caught by Rahul Dravid, but umpire Billy Bowden's decision was overruled by the television official.
"I found it quite hard and a couple of the other boys came in and scored quickly, and that took the pressure off me. It is always nice to get the team into a position where we can hopefully do something in this Test match.
"I haven't had the best couple of years, I had a pretty good winter but there are a lot of players in that dressing room that are doing really well."
Pietersen added 98 for the third wicket with Jonathan Trott before his fellow South Africa-born teammate became the first of five victims snared by medium-pacer Praveen Kumar -- his best effort in just his fourth match in the five-day format.
He then put on another 110 with Ian Bell, who also fell to Kumar for 45, while Eoin Morgan went in the 24-year-old's same over without scoring.
Matt Prior, another England player with South African ancestry, helped Pietersen add another 120 runs for the sixth wicket as he made 71 off 93 balls before Kumar provided captain and wicketkeeper Mahendra Singh Dhoni with his third catch of the innings.
Stuart Broad was trapped leg before wicket by Kumar's next ball, but Graeme Swann avoided the hat-trick before scoring 24 in a partnership of 61 with Pietersen.
The former England captain needed just 25 balls to complete his fourth 50 and was unbeaten on 202 when his successor Andrew Strauss called the players in, 25 runs short of his Test best.
India, the top-ranked nation in Test cricket, safely negotiated the six overs before day's end, with the experienced Gautam Gambhir on seven and 21-year-old Abhinav Mukund on eight in just his fourth Test appearance.
