Police searching for the suspect in a triple homicide in Georgia have released a 911 call from a man who says he was one of the killer's intended targets.
Authorities claim that the suspect, Robert Bell, 33, used an assault weapon similar to an AR-15 to execute two adults and a 12-year-old boy on Sunday, September 15.
A fourth shooting victim, Justin Cato, 23, "laid low" and then called the police when it was apparent that the gunman had left, said Cpl. Jake Smith of the Gwinnett County Police Department.
In a calm voice, Cato tells the dispatcher that a man he did not know came to the house where he lived in Snellville, a city of about 18,000 east of Atlanta. The man didn't say anything and just started shooting, Cato tells the dispatcher. He also says everybody else in the house is shot.
Cato was shot in the leg. The deceased victims were each shot multiple times, detectives said. They have been identified as:
-- Angelina Benton, 34, who police say lived at the home and was Cato's girlfriend.
-- Benton's godson, Raynord Daniel, 19.
-- Benton's 12-year-old son, Joseph McDonald.
Bell could be traveling to Chicago or Tennessee, where he has family, said Smith. He is considered armed and dangerous.
Benton had invited Bell and his wife to stay with her about two weeks before the shooting, police said. "They were down on their luck and needed a place to say," Smith told CNN. "About a week later, the suspect's wife moved out to Tennessee for a job, and he stayed there."
On the night of September 15, the victims and Cato were walking to the home when the suspect opened fire with the assault weapon, Smith said.
"We believe he shot and killed the man and the boy before pursuing Angelina down near the end of the driveway."
Bell's SUV was left at the scene along with the weapon. "He was last seen walking away," Smith said. Investigators would not speculate on a possible motive.
Bell is wanted on three counts of felony murder and one count of aggravated assault.
Anyone with information is asked to call the Gwinnett County Police at 770-513-5300.
