(CNN Student News) -- March 3, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Frankfurt, Germany • Libya • Los Angeles
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Oh say can you see a new edition of CNN Student News? 'Cause it starts right now! From the CNN Center in Atlanta, I'm Carl Azuz.
First Up: Frankfurt Shooting
AZUZ: First up, President Obama says the U.S. will spare no effort to learn how an outrageous attack took place. Happened yesterday at Germany's Frankfurt Airport. Two American troops were shot and killed on a U.S. military bus. Two others were wounded. They were security forces who were being deployed. German police have one suspect in custody. Officials say that what they think happened is that the gunman rushed onto the bus while it was waiting outside the terminal and then started shooting. This would be a federal crime in both the United States and in Germany. This story was developing when we produced this show yesterday. For the latest: CNN.com.
Crisis in Libya
AZUZ: The fighting between Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi's troops and the rebels who are against Colonel Gadhafi is getting worse. Libyan aircraft bombed two parts of the country yesterday where rebels have taken control. In this incident that you're watching, a CNN crew saw an aircraft drop two bombs near a town that has major oil and natural gas facilities.
U.S. officials say one option to try and push Gadhafi out of power is to create a no-fly zone over Libya. Defense Secretary Robert Gates says if Congress orders that, the U.S. military could do it. But he warned lawmakers that in order to set up the no-fly zone, first, the U.S. would have to attack Libya's anti-aircraft weapons.
Shoutout
JOHN LISK, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's first Shoutout goes out to Mr. Brown's global studies classes at Goodrell Middle School in Des Moines, Iowa! Which of these documents discusses freedom of speech? Is it the: A) Declaration of Independence, B) Preamble to the Constitution, C) Gettysburg Address or D) Bill of Rights? You've got three seconds -- GO! Freedom of speech is found in the Bill of Rights. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Free Speech Decision
AZUZ: The First Amendment, to be specific. People have the right to exercise their freedom of speech, even if what they're saying is hurtful. That's the ruling that the U.S. Supreme Court made yesterday in a case about the balance between free speech and privacy.
On one side was the Westboro Baptist Church. They believe that God is punishing America for "the sin of homosexuality." And they think that U.S. troops deserve to die because they fight for a country that tolerates homosexuality. Church members have raised controversy by protesting near funerals for members of the military.
That includes the 2006 funeral for Lance Corporal Matthew Snyder. Matthew's father Albert -- who says his son was not gay -- is on the other side of this court case. He says the protesters shouldn't have been at the funeral, and he sued the church for invasion of privacy.
The case made it all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court. And in an 8-1 decision, the court ruled in favor of the Westboro Church and said members had a right to promote their message in public settings. Chief Justice John Roberts wrote that, "Speech is powerful. It can stir people to action, move them to tears of both joy and sorrow and -- as it did here -- inflict great pain. On the facts before us, we cannot react to that pain by punishing the speaker."  He also pointed out that the protest happened far enough away from the memorial service that there wasn't any indication that it interfered with the funeral. But Chief Justice Roberts added that while Westboro believes that America is morally flawed, many Americans might feel the same about Westboro.
Blog Promo
AZUZ: Wanna talk about this? Head to CNNStudentNews.com. We've posted this story on today's blog and we're looking for your thoughts on both the controversy itself and the Supreme Court's decision.
Senate Budget Vote
AZUZ: Americans are split on the possibility of a government shutdown. According to a recent survey, 46 percent of people say a shutdown would be good because it would stop the government from going further into debt. 44 percent say it would be bad because of the federal services that would stop running. It'll be two more weeks before that possibility comes up again. Yesterday, the Senate voted to keep funding the government through March 18th. The House passed the bill the day before. And once President Obama signs the extension, it'll be law.
Rodney King Anniversary
AZUZ: Many of you might not know the name Rodney King. Back in 1991, not a lot of other people did either. But that changed after something that happened twenty years ago today. King led Los Angeles police on a high speed chase. The video of what happened when he was caught got attention across the country. A man nearby took this video, which shows the police beating Rodney King. He was arrested, but later released without being charged. And a little more than a year later, four of the officers were acquitted of beating King. The ruling caused racial tensions and set off a week-long riot in L.A. that left 55 people dead. Don Lemon recently sat down with Rodney King to talk about some of the struggles he's gone through over the past two decades and what his life is like now.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR, CNN NEWSROOM: In the 20 years since his life was turned upside down, Rodney King has relocated to suburban Rialto, California. He's 20 years older and, according to him, a lot wiser. He admits his past is riddled with bad decisions.
If you could do it all over again, what would you do? Would you go out that night?
RODNEY KING, POLICE BEATING VICTIM: I would have stayed, stayed home. I think I would have stayed home.
LEMON: For years after the beating, Rodney King continued to have run-ins with the law. In 1996, he was sentenced to 90 days for a hit-and-run involving his wife. He was also arrested several times on charges related to domestic abuse, drug intoxication and indecent exposure.
Why, after all that, that's what people would say, especially black people, why after all that, Rodney, are you still getting in trouble?
KING: I guess the trouble that they see me in is a part of my life that I'm working on.
LEMON: And 20 years later, Rodney King still lives in fear.
Years after the beating, you wore a vest?
KING: Oh, yeah. Yeah.
LEMON: Do you still wear a vest?
KING: Yeah. I do. I do.
LEMON: He wears a bulletproof vest in large crowds because threats against his life were all too real. The FBI once infiltrated a white supremacist plot to assasinate king.
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Are you constantly looking over your shoulder?
KING: I never feel safe, just things that happened.
When you are part of history, and it changes for the better, you got a lot of devilish people out there that don't like it.
LEMON: When Rodney King had the blood on his face, that mug shot of you with the blood on your face, who was he then?
KING: Oh man. A guy that was almost dead and just, like, happy to be able to still have that face, to be able to see that face.
LEMON: And Rodney King now? All cleaned up, trimmed goatee, beads around his neck. Who is Rodney King now?
KING: I consider myself a decent, you know, good human being.
(END VIDEO)
Web Promo
AZUZ: Teachers, our daily e-mail gives you a sneak preview of what's coming up in tomorrow's show. And signing up for it is simple as one, two, three. One: Go to our home page, CNNStudentNews.com. Two: Scroll down to the "How do I" box and click on "sign up for the daily e-mail." Three: Just fill out the form. It's just that easy.
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for a Shoutout Extra Credit! The phrase "twilight's last gleaming" is part of what song? You know what to do! Is it in: A) God Bless America, B) The Star Spangled Banner, C) America the Beautiful or D) My Country 'Tis of Thee? Another three seconds on the clock -- GO!  "What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming." That's part of the Star Spangled Banner! That's your answer and that's your Shoutout Extra Credit!
Before We Go
AZUZ: 80 years ago today, the Star Spangled Banner officially became the U.S. national anthem. But the original is on the move! This is the manuscript -- the original poem -- of the words that Francis Scott Key wrote while he watched the bombardment of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812. That's where the "bombs bursting in air" line comes from. Can you imagine that? You come up with a poem that, more than 100 years later, becomes your country's national anthem.
Goodbye
AZUZ: That's what I call a banner achievement. It's time for us to wave goodbye. But don't let your spirits flag. CNN Student News returns tomorrow, puns and all. We'll see y'all then.
