(CNN Student News) -- May 27, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Bosnia • France • Joplin, Missouri
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: It's Friday -- awesome! -- and I'm Carl Azuz. First up today, a headline that some people have waited 15 years to hear.
First Up: Ratko Mladic Captured
AZUZ: Ratko Mladic, the former commander of Serbian forces in Bosnia, has been arrested. This conflict in Bosnia happened back in the 1990s. It was the deadliest war fought in Europe since World War II. And Mladic was the highest ranking war crimes suspect who hadn't been caught.
Bosnia was part of the former country of Yugoslavia. The war there lasted from 1992 to 1995. Serbians, Croats and Muslims fought against each other for control of territory. Serbian leaders, like Mladic, are accused of genocide, attempting to wipe out the other groups. Mladic was the leader of Bosnian Serb forces who allegedly attacked the city of Srebrenica and killed thousands of Muslims. Only one other top Serb leader is currently held and awaiting trial. And with Mladic now in custody, Hala Gorani looks back at some of the reaction to what could be the end of this dark chapter in history.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
HALA GORANI, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: After almost 16 years on the run, one of the world's most wanted alleged war criminals is finally captured. Serbian authorities arrested Ratko Mladic Thursday. They reportedly caught up with him in Lazarevo, a village near the northern town of Zrenjanin. Mladic was a Bosnian Serb general during the Balkan wars of the 1990s, and the highest-ranking Yugoslav war crimes suspect still at large. He's wanted for genocide, extermination and murder, and is accused of masterminding the 1995 massacre at Srebrenica.
LORD DAVID OWEN, FORMER EU ENVOY TO FORMER YUGOSLAVIA: General Mladic has a very heavy responsibility for what was a tragedy in Bosnia-Herzegovina for many years, but particularly for the massacre of over 8,000 Muslim males, which has already been judged to be a genocide.
GORANI: The capture was praised internationally as a victory for the rule of law in Serbia.
ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: The arrest of Ratko Mladic is a very important step towards full integration of the entire region in our Euro-Atlantic community.
GORANI: Mladic now faces extradition to the Netherlands and will eventually be tried by an international criminal tribunal.
JAMES RUBIN, FORMER U.S. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE: When I was the State Department spokesman back in the late '90s, journalists every day would often ask what's happening with Mladic, what's happening with Karadzic, and all I could say at the time was his day will come. And his day has finally come.
OWEN: I expect to see him in the Hague very soon, and I think that justice will then be done.
GORANI: Hala Gorani, reporting.
(END VIDEO)
Shoutout
SHELBY ERDMAN, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Ms. Hendrich's social studies classes at Elton Gregory Middle School in Redmond, Oregon! Nicolas Sarkozy is the president of what country? You know what to do! Is it: A) Russia, B) France, C) Canada or D) Greece? You've got three seconds -- GO! Mr. Sarkozy has been the president of France for four years. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
G8 Meeting in France
AZUZ: Right now, President Sarkozy is welcoming other world leaders as France hosts the annual meeting of the G8, or Group of Eight. Along with France, the G8 includes the U.S., Britain, Canada, Japan, Germany, Italy and Russia. These are the world's biggest economic powers. They meet every year to discuss major issues happening around the globe. The group got together yesterday in France. And in addition to big topics -- like the global economy, the environment, terrorism -- the recent Japanese earthquake and tsunami also came up. Japan's prime minister thanked President Obama for America's help in recovering from that disaster.
Immigration Law
AZUZ: The U.S. Supreme Court is ruling on whether state or federal laws take priority when it comes to immigration reform. A majority of the court ruled in favor of an Arizona law. It punishes businesses that don't use a federal system to check a potential employee's immigration status. Other groups had argued that the system is supposed to be voluntary. There are several cases involving this "state versus federal" question, so we could hear more on this very soon.
Why So Many Tornadoes?
AZUZ: Officials in Missouri have released a list of more than 230 people missing since a tornado hit the city of Joplin on Sunday. They're asking anyone with information to call in and help. The tornado in Joplin was just one of the storms that has torn across the U.S. Rob Marciano is here to explain the science behind how these twisters form. Rob?
ROB MARCIANO, CNN WEATHER ANCHOR: The set-up across the U.S. is different from any other place in the world, where you have cold Canadian air that comes down from, obviously Canada. And this time of year in May and April, we still have cold air at the upper levels of the atmosphere, because it's not quite totally warmed up. And we have warm humid air coming in from the south, and then also dry air coming in from Mexico. It makes this year a little bit different. At least earlier on, we have this La Nina that we've talked about, and what that does it really starts to kink up the jet stream a little bit more than usual, and that gives it more energy. That allows more cold air to drop down, and that allows the battleground to light up a little bit more.
Blog Promo
AZUZ: On our blog at CNNStudentNews.com, you'll see a list of this school year's top stories. Severe weather is definitely one of them. We want to include your thoughts in our year-end wrap-up. Go to the blog, leave your comments on these stories. You might see them in our show next Friday.
Don't Fry Day
AZUZ: Today, obviously, is Friday. But some organizations have dubbed today "Don't Fry Day." Hmm? Brooke Baldwin is going to shine a light on what this is about.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN ANCHOR: The National Sun Safety Day, also known as "Don't Fry Day," is a campaign by the EPA and members of the National Council on Skin Cancer Awareness. Now in its third year, Don't Fry Day is aimed at educating the public about skin protection in the sun. It's held just before Memorial Day weekend.
DRUSILLA HUFFORD, EPA: Our hope in holding it on the Friday before Memorial Day really has been to peg to the expectation in most American families that that is the gateway to summer. As of now, 1 in 5 Americans is expected to be diagnosed with skin cancer over a lifetime. So, EPA and the National Council are asking folks to remember to slip, slop, slap and wrap. First, slip on some protective clothing. Secondly, wear sunscreen. Next, slap on a hat. Finally, wrap on some sunglasses.
BALDWN: Dermatologist Rutledge Forney says sunscreen is key.
DR. RUTLEDGE FORNEY, DERMATOLOGIST: The first thing they ought to look for is a large number. We really believe that 30 or higher is very important. The second thing is that they need to have a broad spectrum, that is UVA and UVB coverage.
(END VIDEO)
Is This Legit?
ERDMAN, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? Memorial Day used to be known as Decoration Day. This is true! And the holiday always falls on the last Monday in May.
Honoring the Fallen
AZUZ: The holiday that Americans observe on Monday goes back almost 150 years. It was named Decoration Day because the first people who observed it would decorate -- put flowers -- on the graves of troops killed in the U.S. Civil War. So why late May? Well, it's believed this time of year was chosen because flowers are in bloom all across the nation.
This is Arlington National Cemetery. It's where the first major Decoration Day observance was held in 1868, though smaller observances were made throughout the country before that. Instead of flowers, today's military usually places small American flags beside more than 250,000 graves at Arlington. The flags will stay there through Memorial Day.
But Decoration Day, Memorial Day, how did we get from one name to the other? The Great War, the war to end all wars; what's known today as World War I. It not only changed the world, it changed how the U.S. remembers its fallen troops. After this brutal event, Decoration Day became Memorial Day to memorialize Americans killed in any of the nation's wars. This is what distinguishes this holiday from Veterans Day, which honors anyone who's served in the U.S. Armed Forces. And while Memorial Day's traditions have changed over the years, its significance remains. At 3:00 p.m., wherever you are on Memorial Day, there's a National Moment of Remembrance. It encourages you to pause for one minute in honor of those who've died fighting for the country.
Before We Go
AZUZ: Well, before we go today, we have proof for you that one person really can make a difference. The flag flying over the pier in Oceanside, California was pretty torn up. So, Luke Smith decided to do something about it. He wrote a letter to the mayor. The eight-year-old said that flying a torn flag was disrespectful to the country and its troops. He asked the mayor to replace it. Done! New flag flying, all thanks to one person's determination.
Goodbye
AZUZ: Time for us to wave goodbye. No show on Monday due to Memorial Day. Enjoy the long weekend. For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.
