Declaring that "Equality is the prime rib of America," pop star Lady Gaga urged Maine's two U.S. senators to help break a Republican filibuster on legislation that includes a repeal of the military's ban on openly homosexual service members.
"My name is Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta. I am an American citizen," the singer told a Portland, Maine, rally organized by the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network. She urged Sens. Susan Collins and Olympia Snowe, both Republicans, to support the repeal of the Pentagon's "don't ask, don't tell" rule and share "the greatest cut of meat that my country has to offer" with gays and lesbians in the military.
"Shouldn't everyone deserve the right to wear the same meat dress that I do?" asked the singer, who caught flak for showing up at MTV's Video Music Awards in a dress made of raw meat. "Repeal 'don't ask, don't tell' or go home."
The 24-year-old singer also drew cheers by proposing a new law, titled, "If you don't like it, go home," which would remove homophobic straight soldiers from the military instead of gay soldiers.
"If you are not honorable enough to fight without prejudice, go home," she shouted.
Opponents of the 1993 ban have urged Snowe and Collins, both of whom oppose the policy, to join Democrats and help shut down a Republican-led filibuster of a defense authorization bill that would repeal the restriction. Democrats are unlikely to muster the 60-vote supermajority needed to get the bill to the Senate floor without their support. But in statements issued Monday, both senators indicated they would vote with GOP leaders and block the measure.
A key procedural vote is set for Tuesday afternoon.
In addition to speaking at Monday's rally, Gaga has used her online presence to rally her fans -- nicknamed "Little Monsters" -- in support of repeal.
"All hands on deck Lil Monsters: Key Senate vote this Tues. on #DADT repeal. We need 60 senators. Call your senator now," she tweeted on Thursday. She goes into more detail on her website, offering talking points for fans who make the call and urging them to voice their opposition to a filibuster or any amendments that would keep the ban in effect.
