Barcelona left it late before struggling to a 2-1 victory at home to Malaga on Saturday night that restored the defending Spanish champions to the top of the table.
Rivals Real Madrid had climbed to the summit with a 5-1 thrashing of Tenerife earlier in the evening, but the Catalan giants ended round 24 two points clear thanks to a late winner from world player of the year Lionel Messi.
The Argentina forward slotted home from close range in the 84th minute after a superb diagonal pass from Xavi allowed fullback Daniel Alves to provide a precise low cross.
Mid-table Malaga had surprisingly equalized three minutes earlier through substitute Valmiro Valdo as the home side looked like paying for failing to turn their dominance of possession into a handsome lead.
The former Real Madrid player netted coolly on the counterattack after a neat one-two at the halfway line sent him clear of the Barca defense.
Pep Guardiola's team had needed 69 minutes to break the deadlock as striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic headed over from Messi's delicate chip and then the midweek savior had another effort cleared off the line by defender Weligton.
Young winner Pedro Rodriguez finally settled the home fans' nerves when he cut in from the left and curled a right-foot effort in at the near post for his seventh league goal this season.
It was morale-boosting win for Guardiola after his team needed to come from behind to draw 1-1 with Stuttgart in the first leg of their Champions League last-16 tie in Germany on Tuesday.
Real Madrid, beaten by Lyon in the Champions League the week before that, followed up last Sunday's 6-2 thrashing of Villarreal with another goal frenzy on the island of Tenerife.
Gonzalo Higuain netted the first two, set up Kaka for the third and also hit the bar in a win that slightly flattered Manuel Pellegrini's team.
Higuain broke the deadlock in the 29th minute and was set free by Marcelo for the second three minutes before halftime, then Tenerife scored a controversial goal a minute after the restart when Ayoze Garcia appeared to head the ball out of the hands of goalkeeper Iker Casillas and into the net.
But Brazil star Kaka ran onto Higuain's clever pass to restore Real's two-goal lead two minutes later, then the Argentine lobbed a shot onto the Tenerife crossbar.
Portugal forward Cristiano Ronaldo made it 4-1 from the penalty spot with 11 minutes to play after Rafael Van der Vaart's cross hit the hand of unlucky defender Ezequiel Luna.
Dutch midfielder Van der Vaart also laid on the fifth goal in the second minute of time added on as substitute Raul netted the 322nd goal of his long career.
In Sunday's games, third-placed Valencia travel to Atletico Madrid and fourth-placed Sevilla host Athletic Bilbao.
In Germany, leaders Bayer Leverkusen set a new Bundesliga record of 24 matches undefeated following Saturday's frustrating 0-0 draw at home to Rhine rivals Cologne.
Leverkusen moved one point clear of Bayern Munich, who can take top spot with victory at home to fourth-placed Hamburg on Sunday.
Werder Bremen maintained sixth place with a 2-1 win at Mainz, Stuttgart beat Eintracht Frankfurt by the same score thanks to a first-half double from Cacau and Hoffenheim won 2-0 at bottom club Hertha Berlin.
In Italy, 10th-placed Fiorentina snatched a 1-1 draw at struggling Lazio as on-loan striker Keirrison scored his first goal in Serie A in time added on to cancel out Sebastiano Siviglia's seventh-minute opener.
Catania moved above Lazio into 15th place with a 4-0 victory at home to Bari, who stayed in 12th.
Italian leaders Inter Milan travel to Udinese on Sunday, while second-placed city rivals AC Milan host Atalanta.
