Jeb Bush might not be announcing his candidacy for president in 2016 any time soon, but he is sharing his vision of the future with Iowan Republicans.
The Des Moines Register reports Tuesday that GOP Iowans recently received mailers from the former Floridian governor that sounded more like a campaign pitch than a donation plea for his social fundraising group, Excellence in Education National.
In the four and a half page letter, Bush proposes an economic plan that he believes are the stepping stones to make the country "the most economically and socially mobile country in the world," once again.
"I am gravely concerned about the direction of our country, the lack of leadership in Washington, and the economic stagnation we have suffered through for the past six years," he said in the beginning of his letter.
Kristy Campbell, Bush's spokeswoman, confirmed to CNN that the letter was sent in an effort to raise awareness about the current state of the education system, which should not be interpreted as a political sign.
George W. Bush: I think my brother wants to be president
"Gov. Bush raises money for his education work throughout the year and the letter is not related to any decision about his political future," she said.
Campbell said that the governor will consider running and expects to make a decision later this year or in early 2015.
The Des Moines Register said that Iowans had told them that they had never received anything from Bush or his foundation before. However, Campbell said the mailers are being sent across the country, not just to Iowa Republicans.
In several bullet points, Bush lists the need for immigration reform, simplifying tax regulations, and other policies, half a page before touching upon the "failing education system."
While the mailer does ask Iowans to donate for his cause, Bush's disclosure of his vision for only adds fuel to the rumor mill about whether he will run in 2016.
Jeb Bush back in the spotlight after son's comments
In recent days speculation about a potential bid has increased following several comments made by his family members. On Sunday, both of Bush's sons hinted that their father is seriously considering running. In an interview with the New York Times, Jeb Bush Jr. said that people and donors are "getting fired up" about the idea of his father running for president.
"I think it's more than likely that...he'll run. The family will be behind him 100 percent if he decides to do it," George P. Bush, the governor's youngest son, told Jon Karl on ABC's "This Week."
