(CNN)  -- Birmingham City upset Arsenal 2-1 to win the English League Cup at Wembley Sunday, ending a 48-year wait for a major trophy.
The defeat prolonged Arsenal's six-year wait for silverware of their own, having gone into the final as overwhelming favorites.
Serbian striker Nikola Zigic put Birmingham ahead after 28 minutes before Robin van Persie equalized six minutes before halftime.
The match looked headed into extra time until substitute Obafemi Martins scored a last-minute winner.
The Nigerian international pounced after a dreadful mix-up between Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny and defender Laurent Koscielny gifted him a chance he gratefully accepted.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger said he was "bitterly disappointed" but for his Birmingham counterpart Alex McLeish, it was the exact opposite.
"It feels like the best ever win of my life," said the 52-year-old, who won seven trophies while in charge of Scottish giants Rangers.
"In relative terms for us to put one over Arsenal is a titanic result," he told BBC Sport.
The match begun and ended in dramatic fashion and after only two minutes Birmingham were denied a penalty which should have also seen Szczesny sent off.
A clever pass from Zigic sent Lee Bowyer racing through on goal and the midfielder rounded Szczesny only to be brought down by the giant keeper.
But instead of a red card and a spot-kick, Arsenal were given a big let-off when Bowyer was ruled offside. TV replays showed Bacary Sagna had been playing Bowyer yards onside.
After the exchange of first half goals, a header after a corner for the giant Zigic, and a fine volley by Dutch star van Persie, Arsenal, bidding for a quadruple, looked the more dangerous.
Birmingham goalkeeper Ben Foster, named man of the match, pulled off a string of fine saves, with Samir Nasri twice denied.
But Birmingham were also dangerous in sporadic attacks and substitute Jean Beausejour set up Keith Fahey for a 57th minute shot against the foot of the post with Szczesny well beaten.
