A gossip magazine in Denmark on Saturday dismissed reports it had published new, even more revealing images of Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, as entirely false.
The publication of topless photographs of Catherine, taken with a long lens while she sunbathed while on vacation with Prince William in France, prompted anger and legal action from palace officials earlier this month.
A number of media outlets in Britain and the United States reignited the controversy Friday when they reported that the Danish magazine, Se Og Hor, had printed fresh "bottomless" images of Britain's likely future queen -- that is, without her bikini briefs on.
But the editor-in-chief of Se och Hoer, Kim Henningsen, dismissed the latest media reports as untrue rumors and told CNN the only images it had published were in one 16-page spread on September 20.
Magazine fined for topless Kate photos
Those are from the same set of photos first seen in the French magazine Closer, then in an Italian magazine and an Irish newspaper, Henningsen said. They were also published in Sweden's Se och Hoer, a sister magazine to the Danish title.
Defending the publication at the time, Henningsen said: "It's a set of unique photos from an A-class celebrity. We are a leading gossip magazine in Denmark, and it is my job to publish them."
He added: "If the British royal family want to sue us, then it will happen then and we'll deal with it."
The French Closer magazine was fined last week by a French court and ordered not to distribute the edition in print or online. It was also told to hand over the photos to the royals within 24 hours.
Criminal proceedings have also been launched by the couple's attorneys against the French Closer magazine.
Sex, lives, videotape: When to publish?
Asked about the latest reports concerning Se Og Hor, a St. James's Palace spokeswoman said: "As we've said, we will not be commenting on potential legal action concerning the alleged intended publication of the photos save to say that all proportionate responses will be kept under review."
Catherine and her husband, Prince William, the second in line to the throne, were said by palace officials to be upset and angered by the invasion of their privacy.
The initial publication of the images came only three weeks after a media furor over the release of images of William's younger brother, Harry, partying naked in his Las Vegas hotel suite.
No British newspapers have published the topless pictures of the Duchess of Cambridge.
CNN's Alexander Felton contributed to this report.
