Nobody is being charged in a drunken brawl that involved a white limousine full of members of Sarah Palin's family, police in Alaska said Thursday.
But it sure sounds like things got out of hand, with the host of the September house party where it all happened saying the Palins got into a fight they "ended up losing."
The Anchorage Police Department released a report that includes more than two pages of details about the brawl, which happened after the former GOP vice presidential nominee's family and friends showed up at another friend's party. It details accusations that Bristol Palin punched the host in the face repeatedly, that Track Palin tried to start a fight with his father and more.
Here are some of the details -- wildly different, depending on who's offering the information -- that Officer John Daily submitted in his official report:
1. When he arrived, a shirtless, "heavily intoxicated" and "belligerent at first" Track Palin, Sarah Palin's adult son, was about to step into a white limousine with his parents, Sarah and Todd. They'd all been at the party at Korey Klingenmeyer's house.
2. Track told the officer some guys were "talking rudely" to his sisters and making them cry. So he stuck up for them. When one of his friends, identified only as Steven, got punched by one of the allegedly rude guys, the fight started. Todd said that's when "everything escalated and it was a situation they couldn't walk away from."
3. Bristol Palin ended up on the ground during the fight. The Palin family said that's because Klingenmeyer knocked her down.
4. Klingenmeyer offered a different version of the story. He told the officer he wanted to press charges against Bristol, who he said had told him "he doesn't own this place and that she will kick his a--." after he tried to stop her from fighting. Then, Klingenmeyer said, Bristol hit him. He said she could "hit him again if it makes her feel better and she does." After six or so "pretty hard" punches, he said he grabbed her fist and Bristol fell down. "At that time," the officer reported, "he said several guys from the party stepped in to help him and a fight broke out and the Palins ended up losing."
5. Bristol "appeared heavily intoxicated and upset," and explained that Klingenmeyer "had drug her across the lawn by her legs and was calling her a [expletive deleted] and a slut." She explained that another girl at the party had hit one of her sisters, Willow Palin, and said that's how things got started.
6. Track left the fight with a bloody mouth and injuries under his left eye and on his left elbow. Bristol had some dirt on her knees. Klingenmeyer "stated his face felt swollen," but there weren't any "obvious injuries."
The Palin family wouldn't comment Thursday on the report and the decision not to charge any of the brawl's participants.
But Sarah Palin did defend her daughter Bristol in a Sept. 19 Facebook post.
"I love my Bristol!" she wrote. "My straight-shooter is one of the strongest young women you'll ever meet. I have to say this as a proud mama: right up there with their work ethic and heart for those less fortunate, my kids' defense of family makes my heart soar!
"As you can imagine, they and my extended family have experienced so many things (liberal media-driven) that may have crushed others without a strong foundation of faith, and I'm thankful for our friends' prayer shield that surrounds them, allowing faith to remain their anchor."
Read the full report here
