BP said it resumed drilling Monday on a relief well, as efforts to  permanently seal the previously leaking Gulf of Mexico oil well appeared  to be entering their final stages.
Drilling on the  relief well resumed at 2:40 p.m. ET after a massive sleeve protecting  the well from sudden, large increases in pressure was successfully  installed over the weekend.
Installing the device  "resulted in the necessary conditions to commence the finalization of  the relief well," Thad Allen, the government's appointed national  incident commander in charge of overseeing the oil spill response, said  in a statement Monday.
Allen said the relief well remains "the final step that will ensure the well is fully and finally killed."
Drilling  had been stopped since August 10 when a tropical storm threatened  conditions at the site, forcing the oil company to suspend operations.  Since then, weather delays in the storm-prone Gulf as well as scientific  and technical debate on how to proceed have extensively prolonged the  timeline for definitively plugging the well.
Before  drilling resumed, the relief well had been at a measured depth of 17,909  feet and was less than 50 feet vertically and four feet horizontally  from the original well.
"Relief well operations will  consist of drilling and ranging runs that will guide the rig's drill bit  to intercept the well's annulus. Following the intercept, heavy  drilling mud and cement will be pumped into the annular space to  complete the isolation of the MC252 well," BP said.
While  BP successfully stopped the flow of oil on July 15 by embedding a  cement plug near the top of the well, permanently sealing the well has  been a process full of fits and starts.
Just last week,  Allen laid out a possible timetable that pushed the "bottom kill" -- a  process in which heavy mud and cement are pumped into the bottom part of  the original well via the relief well -- into October.
But  with the new sleeve in place, the timetable is expected to be shortened  "significantly," Allen. It could take about four days to finish  drilling and intercept the original well.  BP would then need a few more  days after that to complete the bottom kill.
Federal   investigators  and the Department of Justice are now poring over a   device called a blowout  preventer, a piece of equipment that failed on  April 20 when BP's oil platform  exploded, killing 11 people.  The   blowout preventer was designed to stop oil  from spewing by sealing the   well pipe. Instead, it failed, triggering the  world's largest   accidental oil spill and sending 4.1 million barrels of oil into  the   Gulf.
