English golfer Robert Rock completed a wire-to-wire success at the Italian Open on Sunday to clinch his first European Tour title.
The 34-year-old, who led from Thursday's opening round, carded a five-under-par 67 to finish on 21-under 267 as he triumphed by two shots in Turin.
The win, after nine years on the circuit, boosted his hopes of impressing in his first U.S. Open start at Congressional next week -- his first major appearance outside of Britain.
The world No. 165 ended up one shot ahead of compatriot Gary Boyd, who shot 66, and Denmark's Thorbjorn Olesen -- who surged up the leaderboard with a superb 62.
Rock steady as Englishman bids for maiden European Tour title
"I have been waiting a long time to be even in with a chance of doing this," Rock told reporters. "I played good today so I am very happy.
"It's a fantastic feeling, it's one of my favorite courses now. Since they changed the venue I have done well here. I was expecting to do well this week, but not really expecting this."
The 21-year-old Olesen started with two birdies and an eagle, and completed his front nine in just 29 strokes before setting the clubhouse lead on 20 under.
Boyd matched that with a birdie at the final hole, his eighth of the day after bogeys at his first and 10th holes.
Rock, runner-up three times in Europe including in 2009 at the same Royal Park I Roveri course, had extended his lead to two shots by the end of Saturday's third round but lost ground with a bogey at his third hole.
He bounced back with four birdies in a row from the fifth, and then another three in four holes from 10 marred only by another bogey at 12.
Rock knew he could win by coming home in par, which he managed despite driving into the trees at 17 as he did well to escape back onto the fairway, pitched to 12 feet and sank his clutch putt.
Scotland's Pete Whiteford was fourth on 19 under after a 66, one ahead of Dutchman Joost Luiten (68).
Home hopes Francesco Molinari and Matteo Manassero tied for eighth on 16 under after finishing with 70 and 68 respectively.
Molinari won the tournament in 2006 for his first European Tour success, while the 18-year-old Manassero had been seeking his third title since turning professional 13 months ago.
