Manchester United's hopes of retaining the Premier League title suffered a setback on Wednesday as the English champions slumped to a 3-0 defeat at Newcastle.
Superb strikes from Demba Ba and Yohan Cabaye plus a late Phil Jones own goal earned the home side a deserved victory and condemned United to a second successive loss following Saturday's shock 3-2 home defeat by bottom club Blackburn.
The result, United's first away reverse this season, left Alex Ferguson's second-placed team three points behind rivals Manchester City, with Tottenham in third another three points behind with a game in hand.
Early season pace-setters Newcastle came into the match on the back of a poor recent run of just one win in eight matches, a sequence which had seen Alan Pardew's side slump to seventh in the table.
Who are the top January transfer targets?
But they were always the dominant side against a disjointed United, and it was no surprise when the hosts took a 33rd-minute lead when top scorer Ba superbly swiveled on the edge of the area before smashing home his 15th goal of the season.
Newcastle doubled the lead early in the second half with another spectacular goal, as Cabaye curled home a delightful long-range free-kick that hit the underside of the crossbar before bouncing over the goal-line of keeper Anders Lindegaard -- who was recalled in place of David De Gea.
United's miserable night was complete in the final minute when a long ball from Newcastle goalkeeper Tim Krul was turned into his own net by England defender Jones.
Newcastle remained in seventh place, though now just a point behind Liverpool.
In Wednesday's other English Premier League match, Bolton moved off the bottom after recovering from a goal behind to win 2-1 at Everton.
The home side took a 63rd-minute lead in freak circumstances when Everton goalkeeper Tim Howard's long clearance flew over his opposite number Adam Bogdan and into the net.
However, former Liverpool striker David Ngog leveled for the visitors just four minutes later before captain Gary Cahill -- who has been linked with a move to Chelsea during the transfer window -- smashed home the winner with 12 minutes remaining.
In Spain, Barcelona put one foot into the quarterfinals of the Copa del Rey with a 4-0 victory at home to Osasuna in the first leg of their last-16 tie.
Cesc Fabregas netted twice in the first half and Lionel Messi came off the substitutes' bench to add another couple after the break to give Pep Guardiola's side a healthy advantage ahead of next week's return match.
