Australia shocked Germany 2-1 in their friendly international in Moenchengladbach on Tuesday, a result that saw the Socceroos gain some revenge for their 4-0 defeat by the Germans in South Africa 2010.
Germany coach Joachim Loew named a weakened side for the match -- and he was punished with the worse defeat in his four-and-a-half years in charge as Australia secured one of their greatest-ever footballing victories.
The home side looked to be on course for victory when Bayern Munich striker Mario Gomez slotted the ball home from the edge of the area in the 26th minute.
But the visitors turned things around after the interval and levelled on the hour mark when David Carney burst through the Germany defense to fire past goalkeeper Tim Wiese.
And Australia sealed a famous win just two minutes later when Christian Traesch fouled Harry Kewell in the area and Luke Wilkshire scored from the spot.
Meanwhile, a last-gasp Asamoah Gyan goal gave Ghana a 1-1 draw against England at Wembley in an end-to-end encounter.
In front of a capacity crowd that included over 20,000 Ghanaians, England took the lead when the most expensive English signing ever, Andy Carroll, fired home his first goal for his country.
But Ghana never gave up and levelled in the final minute when Gyan, who plays his club football in England for Sunderland, found space in the area to shoot past goalkeeper Joe Hart.
Elsewhere, in-form France were denied a seventh consecutive victory by Croatia as the teams drew 0-0 in their friendly match at the Stade de France.
Lille central defender Adil Rami hit the woodwork for the home side in the second period, while Franck Ribery was jeered by the home fans as he made his first appearance on home soil since being banned for his role in France's World Cup training ground strike in South Africa last year.
In other friendly matches playeed on Tuesday, World Cup semifinalists Uruguay came away from Dublin with a 3-2 victory over the Republic of Ireland, while Italy were in impressive form as they defeated Ukraine 2-0 in Kiev.
