The United Nations may expand its role in Iraq, according to a new draft resolution the U.N. Security Council is considering.
Damage is evident at U.N. headquarters in Baghdad in September 2003, a month after a deadly bombing.
The resolution would expand the U.N. mandate in Iraq to include fostering "regional dialogue" on matters such as border security, energy and refugees.
The United Nations also would work with the Iraqi government to "resolve disputed internal boundaries" and on "planning, funding and implementing reintegration programs for former combatants."
A copy of the draft, which CNN obtained Thursday, calls for the extension of the mandate for another year after the current one expires next week, on August 10.
U.S. State Department deputy spokesman Tom Casey had no comment on the draft.
The U.N. Assistance Mission for Iraq has had a limited role in the country since 2003, when it greatly scaled down activities after two bombings at its Baghdad headquarters.
Currently, the mandate calls for the mission to "play a leading role" in helping the government with its electoral machinery and constitutional development.
It is also mandated to advise on promoting human rights, working toward national reconciliation, developing civil and social services, coordinating development and aid, and planning on a "comprehensive census."
The draft calls for these roles to continue, but would expand the mandate to include other activities.
It calls on the mission to promote a "national dialogue and political reconciliation" process that would be "inclusive."
The U.N. Assistance Mission for Iraq also would be charged with promoting "the development of effective civil and social services" and implementing programs "to improve Iraq's capacity to provide essential services for its people."
The resolution also mandates "active donor coordination of critical reconstruction and assistance programs through the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq," an agency created by the World Bank and the United Nations.
The draft resolution calls for the U.N. Assistance Mission for Iraq to help the government with the "safe, orderly and voluntary return of refugees and displaced persons, including coordinating and delivering humanitarian assistance in Iraq and coordinating with agencies providing assistance in states hosting Iraqi refugees."
It calls for a partnership between Iraq and the international community that would help the country foster "peace, sound governance and economic reconstruction."
The draft says "security is essential" for U.N. Assistance Mission for Iraq to perform its duties.
The top U.N. envoy to Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello, and 21 others were killed in an August 2003 bombing at U.N. headquarters in Baghdad.
After a second bombing that year and attacks against humanitarian workers, then-U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan removed all U.N. international staff from Iraq. A year later, a small U.N. contingent returned to Baghdad. E-mail to a friend
