The parents of two children allegedly slain by their nanny in New York City last year are expecting a child this fall, roughly a year after the nightmare deaths, according to a Facebook post.
"We are very happy to let you know that Marina is expecting a baby in the fall," parents Marina and Kevin Krim said Thursday on the "Lulu & Leo Fund" memorial page, established for their late daughter Lucia "Lulu" Krim, 6, and her brother Leo, 2.
Police say on that October 25, 2012, the children's mother returned to the family's Upper West Side apartment, found Lucia and Leo dead in the bathroom and saw the nanny stab herself with a kitchen knife.
Krim left two of her children with the nanny, Yoselyn Ortega, 50, to take her 3-year-old child, Nessie, to a swim lesson at a nearby YMCA, New York Police Commissioner Ray Kelly said. She had expected to meet the nanny around 5:30 p.m. at a dance class, but when Ortega failed to appear, the mother went back to the apartment.
Ortega was arrested in November and later indicted on first- and second-degree murder charges, court documents show. Ortega has pleaded not guilty and has been ruled emotionally fit to stand trial, according to prosecutors.
The children's grandmother, Karen Krim, told CNN on Friday: "We are thrilled."
"Nessie can't wait to welcome her new baby brother," the children's parents say on their Facebook post. "We are filled with many emotions as we look to the future, but the most important one is hope."
Kevin Krim is a senior vice president for CNBC Digital and a former Yahoo executive.
Ortega, a native of the Dominican Republic, has been a naturalized U.S. citizen for 10 years. Friends introduced the family to Ortega, and she had worked for them since Leo's birth, police said.
Ortega was not a live-in nanny, but Marina Krim's blog, "Life with the Little Krim Kids," offered the loving mother's view of a family life that included Ortega as a member.
In February 2012, the Krims traveled to the Dominican Republic, where they met Ortega's family.
"We spent the past nine days in the Dominican Republic," Marina Krim wrote on February 18. "We spent half the time at our nanny, Josie's sister's home in Santiago and the rest at Balcones de Atlantico in Las Terrenas, a condo-style hotel where the 'Real Housewives of Dominican Republic' and their families hang on weekends. It was wonderful."
She added, "We met Josie's amazing familia!!! And the Dominican Republic is a wonderful country!!"
One photograph showed the families together, Ortega holding the girl who was learning how to swim at the time her siblings were killed.
