Former Chelsea assistant Ray Wilkins believes the Premier League club will re-appoint Guus Hiddink as their new manager.
Wilkins worked alongside Hiddink in 2009, when the Dutchman took over from Luis Felipe Scolari, and the pair helped Chelsea lift the FA Cup that season.
Hiddink's temporary reign ended before the start of the 2009-2010 season and Carlo Ancelotti then took the London side to a league and cup double, before a trophy-less season just gone resulted in the Italian losing his job.
Since then, Hiddink -- who is currently in charge of the Turkish national side -- has been linked with a return to Stamford Bridge and Wilkins, who was controversially sacked by Chelsea last season. believes he will be appointed by the London club very soon.
Speaking to CNN, Wilkins said: "It seems to be heading towards Guus. He has been there once before, only for four months, but we won the FA Cup and also reached the Champions League semifinals in that time.
"The Champions League seems to be the holy grail for Chelsea and if they are to go one stage further in that competition, Guus would be the man to do that."
Wilkins added: "Guus knows the way Chelsea think and knows everybody at the training ground, so it would just be like slotting in the last piece of the jigsaw puzzle."
Meanwhile, Aston Villa have confirmed the appointment of former Birmingham manager Alex McLeish on a three-year contract.
McLeish led Birmingham to victory in last season's Carling Cup final, but the club were also relegated out of the Premier League for the second time under his control -- and he quit his position under a cloud last week.
Birmingham and Villa are bitter city rivals and McLeish's appointment has resulted in fan demonstrations.
However, McLeish told the official Villa website: "I know some of the fans have voiced concerns and I can understand why. But it is up to me to convince them that I am the right man to take this club forward."
Elsewhere in the Premier League, the fixtures for the forthcoming 2011-2012 season were released with champions Manchester United facing a trip to West Bromwich Albion in their opening match.
United won 2-1 there last season, but WBA were the only team to come away from Old Trafford with a point in a 2-2 draw.
Arsenal travel to Newcastle, where they squandered a four-goal lead to draw 4-4, while new big-money Liverpool signing Jordan Henderson faces a dream home debut against the club he has just left, Sunderland.
New boys Swansea face a daunting trip to Manchester City, while fellow- newcomers QPR are at home to Bolton and Norwich must travel to Wigan.
