Divers have completed their search of a Russian cruise ship that sank last weekend with the loss of many lives, the Emergency Situations Ministry told CNN Friday.
The official death toll has reached 114 -- including 66 women, 28 children and 20 men, the ministry said. The bodies of 15 people are still missing.
There were 208 people on the "Bulgaria" at the time of the accident Sunday, of whom 79 were rescued.
Divers have checked all the boat's compartments, the ministry said, and are now looking for more bodies around the boat as well downstream on the Volga River, where they could have been carried by the current.
The area where search efforts continue has been enlarged to 200 kilometers (125 miles) from the scene, Russian Transport Minister Igor Levitin said at a briefing Friday.
Preparations are under way for the cruise ship to be raised from the river bottom in the coming days.
Two large boat cranes, one from Moscow and another one from Volgograd, which will be used for the lifting, are on the way to the accident site.
"We have asked the Emergency Situations Ministry to keep 23 divers at the scene to continue the search for bodies even during the lifting operation," Levitin said.
Specialist military divers were brought in mid-week to aid in the search efforts.
Four people face criminal charges over the sinking of the ship, which Russian media have called the most devastating river accident in the country's history.
All agencies and organizations involved in tourism must be held accountable, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev said at a special government meeting Friday devoted to the accident.
"This means that not only people who rubber-stamp documents, not only scapegoats, but also organizers of cruises must answer," he said, in comments broadcast by Russian state TV.
"The measure of punishment to be chosen must make it clear to each executive, irrespective of rank, that he or she will be held responsible for each cruise not only administratively, but also criminally. Criminal liability must be sufficiently serious."
Medvedev said it would be too expensive and complicated for Russia immediately to replace the fleets of ageing ships in use on rivers and at sea. But, he said, that did not mean those carrying out inspections should not be thorough.
"It is our task to find out the causes of the accident -- they are more or less clear now -- and also to prevent disasters," he said.
ArgoRechTour, the company that sub-leased the "Bulgaria", had illegally organized five cruises on the ship in the summer of 2011 prior to the accident, the Russian Prosecutor General's Office said in a report published on its website Friday.
The vessel did not have a license to transport passengers, was overloaded, and was last repaired more than 30 years ago, the prosecutors said earlier this week. They had also established that the left engine of the ship was damaged, the prosecutors said on their website.
The vessel was built in 1955 in Czechoslovakia, according to Russian law enforcement officials.
The double-deck cruise ship went down near the village of Syukeyevo in Tatarstan, about 80 kilometers (50 miles) south of the city of Kazan. Kazan is about 724 kilometers (450 miles) east of Moscow.
