Samantha Stosur stopped Caroline Wozniacki from clinching the year-end women's No. 1 tennis ranking with a shock 6-4 6-3 victory at the WTA Championships in Qatar on Wednesday night.
The Australian romped to her second straight victory in the Maroon Group, following her revenge win over French Open champion Francesca Schiavone on Tuesday.
The Roland Garros runner-up's kick serve was a potent weapon against Wozniacki, with the triumph giving the 26-year-old every chance of reaching the semifinals ahead of her final group match against Russia's Elena Dementieva on Thursday.
It was her second victory over a top-ranked player this year, having beaten Serena Williams on the way to reaching the final in Paris.
The fifth seed fired 26 winners to Wozniacki's 14, and could afford to serve two double-faults in the deciding game before the Dane returned a backhand long on her first match-point.
Wozniacki, who thrashed seventh seed Dementieva on Tuesday, will next take on Italy's Schiavone on Thursday.
Kim Clijsters, who won the $4.5 million season-ending event in 2002 and 2003, earlier triumphed in her opening White Group match 6-2 6-3 against fellow former No. 1 Jelena Jankovic despite serving 10 double-faults.
The Belgian, returning to action after having a mole cut off her foot, broke Jankovic to love in the first game of the match and then again in the seventh.
The three-time U.S. Open champion was less impressive in the second set but had enough to see off the Serbian, who is struggling with illness in the oppressive heat in Doha.
"It wasn't my best tennis, but it was good enough. I felt I did a lot of good things, and there are a few things I need to tweak. The more matches I get, the better it will go," said Clijsters, who plays eighth seed Victoria Azarenka on Thursday.
Azarenka was disappointed after squandering a great chance to upset second-seeded Russian Vera Zvonareva, with the Belarusian losing 7-6 (7-4) 6-4 in the day's first match despite leading by a break in both sets.
"I had a lot of chances and was very unlucky in some moments. There were like one million nets from her side," Sunday's Kremlin Cup champion told the event's official website.
"It's part of the game though. I think I played a good match and I'm still in the group -- I still have chances to play further. I'm going to keep fighting and trying to do my best.
"It's very humid here. Sometimes your racquet just slips out of your hands. It's the same conditions for everybody, but I had less time to prepare than anybody else. I'm still happy to be here and I have to regroup from today."
It was Zvonareva's second successive win, following her victory over Jankovic on Tuesday, and she is the only player in the eight-woman field who can overtake the 20-year-old Wozniacki in the rankings.
"It's maybe one of the longest straight-set matches I've ever played. We've played so many times before, I'm just happy to get through," said Zvonareva, who trailed 4-2 in the first set and 3-1 in the second before winning in one hour 45 minutes.
Meanwhile, the United States has named former men's No. 1 player Jim Courier as the successor to Davis Cup captain Patrick McEnroe.
The 40-year-old, who twice won the teams event as a player, takes charge ahead of next March's World Group first-round clash with Chile.
McEnroe had been captain for 10 years, but stood down last month. The U.S. lost 3-2 to Serbia in the opening round in March.
