(CNN Student News) -- December 5, 2014
This Friday's show is especially diverse in scope: It involves the subjects of science, law, biology, engineering and art. You'll hear why one city in Philippines is particularly troubled about Typhoon Hagupit, and you'll learn why this year's flu vaccine is less effective than previous doses. We also cover a grand jury's decision in New York that's sparking protests in other cities.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. The U.S. Navy's first ship, a frigate, was launched in the harbor of what historic city?
2. What is the abbreviation for the virus that causes AIDS?
3. What is the name of the nuclear plant that became the site of the worst nuclear accident in world history?
4. In what year did an earthquake and tsunami in Japan cause the world's second-worst nuclear disaster?
5. Five members of what NFL team caused controversy on Sunday by taking the field with their hands up?
6. In what war-torn, Middle Eastern nation would you find the heavily damaged town of Kobani?
7. What is the name of the $370 million space capsule that NASA was scheduled to launch this week?
8. What Communist country recently made headlines when it banned its media from using puns?
9. Name the turbulent river that blind adventurer Erik Weihenmayer recently paddled through on a kayak.
10. Meaning "lash" in Filipino, Typhoon Hagupit is threatening what Pacific island nation?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
