The father of actress Lindsay Lohan was arrested in connection with a domestic dispute, authorities said Tuesday.
Michael Lohan, 50, was arrested late Monday, the Los Angeles County Sheriff Department's West Hollywood Station said in a statement.
Deputies arrested him on suspicion of inflicting corporal injury on a cohabitant, false imprisonment and preventing the report of victimization, the statement said. All are felony charges.
Bail was set at $200,000, the statement said, but authorities said Tuesday afternoon Lohan had not been booked. He was taken to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center after he complained of "a medical condition not related to the incident" following his arrest.
He will remain at the hospital on observation for at least 24 hours before he is booked at the West Hollywood Station, police said.
The sheriff's department did not identify the alleged victim.  But Kate Major, Lohan's former fiancee, told CNN she was the victim. "I can confirm but barely type," Major wrote in an e-mail. "No other comment."
The alleged victim suffered minor injuries but refused medical treatment, the sheriff's department said.
Lohan was arrested near West Hollywood Station following the incident when deputies saw him walking on Santa Monica Boulevard, the statement said.
The relationship between Michael Lohan and his 24-year-old daughter has been publicly strained for years, although the two did undergo family counseling together during her recent treatment at the Betty Ford Center.
Lindsay Lohan must decide by Wednesday if she will accept a plea deal that would send her to jail or move closer to a trial on a felony grand theft charge. She is accused of walking out without paying for a $2,500 necklace from Kamofie and Co., a jewelry store in Venice, California, on January 22.
If Lindsay Lohan decides to go to trial, a preliminary hearing will be held April 22. The judge at that time would also consider the matter of her probation violation; she faces possible jail time for violating her probation for a drunk-driving arrest because of the theft charge.
CNN's Brittany Kaplan, Carey Bodenheimer and Alan Duke contributed to this report.
