World heavyweight champion Vitali Klitschko has told CNN he is ready to fight David Haye anywhere.
Haye retained his WBA heavyweight crown with a three-round demolition of former Olympic gold medallist Audley Harrison on Saturday, before setting his sights on the Klitschko brothers.
Vitali is the current WBC champion while his brother Wladimir holds the IBF, IBO and WBO belts. Haye told CNN on Monday he would fight one of them within a year before retiring and now Vitali has demanded they get it on.
He told CNN World Sport: "I want to show I'm stronger than David Haye. I'm ready to fight, ready to sign the contract, ready to sit at the table and discuss every point. I know the biggest point of David Haye, he wants to make the money.
"I'm ready to give him a very fair proposal. I'm world champion, he is world champion, let's split worldwide income 50-50. I'm ready to fight David Haye anywhere.
"Let's see where the biggest interest is, where the people want to see the fight, where we have good revenue. We're ready to fight in London, Germany, maybe the United States."
Haye was scheduled to fight Wladimir Klitschko in June last year but had to pull out due to injury. Vitali claims Haye has also pulled out of a fight with him, and fully expects it to happen again.
"The explanation is simple," he told CNN. "David Haye is a smart guy, he understands very well, he's a world champion for a long time if he doesn't fight against the Klitschkos.
"We tried to fight him twice and twice he jumped out. Right now, I think it will be exactly the same: before we make negotiations David Haye will find excuses. If he doesn't want to fight, it's his fault."
Haye faced criticism after his one-sided victory over Harrison but denied he needed to fight one of the Klitschkos to improve his credibility. But Vitali accused Haye of becoming world champion "by talking" and predicted he would knock the Londoner out if they met in the ring.
"David Haye is fast, he is good technically, but for the heavyweight division he is too light," he added. "Every kilogram, every pound is very important in the heavyweight division. I want to show who is a real heavyweight.
"I'm more than sure if I fought David Haye I would knock him out. I know my skills. Look at my fight record, I knock more people out than anybody.
"His biggest fight was against [Nikolai] Valuev. Valuev was famous for his size, nothing more. He lost so many fights. Who else [has Haye fought]? I fought everyone. I'm ready to fight everyone in the world.
"I want to make an open play so the audience know about our negotiations. No rematch, no options, 50-50 income, it's clear rules. I promise everybody David Haye will find some excuse."
