At least ten patients have been left permanently blind following botched cataract surgeries at an illegal medical camp in Punjab state, India, health officials say.
The operations were carried out at a free, unofficial "eye camp" at Guru Nanak Charitable Hospital, Ghuman, organized by a non-government organization, Amritsar's deputy commissioner Ravi Bhagat told CNN.
Sixty-two people, mostly of them aged over 60, had undergone cataract surgery at the camp, held on November 4-5, Anil Joshi, Punjab's Minister for Local Bodies, Medical Education and Research told CNN.
Seventeen later complained of severe pain in their eyes, he said, and had subsequently been treated at an eye clinic at Amritsar's Government Medical College.
Dr Karamjit Singh, an ENT specialist at Government Medical College who is now working to help the affected patients, said that of the 17 who approached the deputy  commissioner with complaints on December 3, 10 were now permanently blind.
Three patients were receiving treatment -- one of whom regained their sight -- while four had left the hospital for personal reasons, despite their eyes being in very poor condition.
Singh said the infections could have been caused unsterilized instruments or eyedrops, and it would be very hard to restore sight to those affected.
Officials have launched an inquiry into the camp, and were trying to trace everyone who was operated on so they could be assessed by Singh, said Joshi.
Medical camps, often run by non-government organizations, are commonplace in India, helping to bring healthcare to many poor people in rural areas who would otherwise be deprived of their services. They are usually approved by the Department of Health and Welfare.
But Bhagat said that no such permissions had been granted to the eye camp, and its operations were illegal.
He said a police report had been filed against the NGO and the doctors involved on the grounds of negligence, and other medical camps in the city had been told to halt operations while their permissions were reviewed.
India's health sector has come in for harsh scrutiny in the wake of a rash of recent incidents in surgery camps.
Earlier this week, officials in Odisha state announced an investigation after bicycle pumps were used to inflate the abdomens of 56 women undergoing sterilization surgery at a government-run community health center.
And last month, a surgeon was arrested on charges of negligence and attempted culpable homicide in the deaths of a dozen women who had undergone sterilization operations at a mobile clinic in Chhattisgarh.
READ MORE: Indian sterilization clinics under scrutiny after bike pump used on patients
READ MORE: Sterilization program under fire after patient deaths
