Days after being dropped from ESPN's "Monday Night Football," Hank Williams Jr. fired back at that network, "Fox and Friends" and what he called the "United Socialist States of America" in his signature style -- a song bellowing biting lyrics in between guitar licks.
"This country sure as hell has gone down the drain," Williams sings in a tune posted Monday on his official website. "We know what we need. We know who to blame."
In the song, the 62-year-old son of the legendary country singer Hank Williams did not appear to accept any blame for his part in a recent controversy stemming from an appearance last Monday on "Fox and Friends," Fox News' morning show.
On the program, he said that the golf outing involving President Barack Obama and House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, was "like Hitler playing golf with (Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin) Netanyahu. OK. Not hardly."
When one of the Fox News' interviewers pointed out that Williams invoked "one of the most hated people in all of the world to describe ... the president," Williams responded: "That is true, but I'm telling you like it is, you know. That just wasn't a good thing. It just didn't fly."
The next day, the singer offered an explanation, saying, "My analogy was extreme -- but it was to make a point. ... The thought of the leaders of both parties jukin' and high fiven' on a golf course, while so many families are struggling to get by, simply made me boil over and make a dumb statement, and I am very sorry if it offended anyone."
Then, last Thursday, ESPN announced that it "decided to part ways" with Williams. His song "All My Rowdy Friends" had been the "Monday Night Football" theme on both ABC and ESPN since 1991.
No remorse was evident in Williams' latest song, titled "Keep the Change" -- an apparent dig at Obama's 2008 campaign promise to bring change to Washington. The singer has criticized Obama in the past, and he supported the 2008 Republican presidential ticket of Sen. John McCain and running mate Gov. Sarah Palin.
Williams sang that he'd keep his freedom, guns, money, religion and "my Christian name," among other things. He added that he'd like to "keep the government out of my business."
The singer said that he had expected to talk about his father's new CD on the "Fox and Friends" program, and accused the show of playing "the gotcha game."
"Ask for my opinion, then twist it all around," Williams sang. "Just wait and see, don't tread on me."
Williams was born May 26, 1949, and his iconic father nicknamed him "Bocephus" after a ventriloquist dummy used by Rod Brasfield, a country comedian, Williams' website says.
He debuted on the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville, Tennessee, at age 11. In addition to "All My Rowdy Friends," his other hits include "Long Gone Lonesome Blues," "Whiskey Bent and Hell Bound," "Old Habits," "Born to Boogie" and "A Country Boy Can Survive."
The bearded Williams, who wears a hat and sunglasses during performances, suffered facial and head injuries in a 1975 mountain climbing accident.
At the end of his song posted Monday, Williams urged people to "keep 'Fox and Friends' and ESPN out of your homes" in light of the flare-up.
"Because Bocephus and all his rowdy friends -- and his song -- is outta there," he concluded.
