A tell-all book by a former "Girls Gone Wild" photographer alleges that Paris Hilton once smuggled illegal drugs into Europe using a cigarette box hidden inside her body.
Hilton's representative did not comment on the book's allegation when contacted by CNN Wednesday.
A copy of "Flash! Bars, Boobs and Busted -- 5 years on the Road with Girls Gone Wild" was filed as an exhibit in the publisher's response to a lawsuit aimed at stopping its sale on Tuesday.
The lawsuit described the "Girls Gone Wild" video series as "filming real college coeds reveling in spring break."
The video series' founder, Joe Francis, filed suit in Los Angeles Superior Court in July accusing his former employee, Ryan Simkins, of violating confidentiality agreements with the book.
"Simkins agreed orally and in writing not to disclose confidential information or speak publicly in a manner that could harm the reputation of Mr. Francis or the Girls Gone Wild enterprise," his suit said.
Simkin's legal response contended he was not bound by any confidentiality agreement.
"To the extent the parties previously may have agreed that the defendant would not write about plaintiffs, that agreement was waived by plaintiffs," the response said.
The book became available online Tuesday despite the lawsuit, according to the publisher's lawyer.
Publisher 4th Street Media, named as a co-defendant, submitted the book as an exhibit in a court filing on Tuesday.
An excerpt of the filing obtained by CNN described a purported encounter between Simkins and Hilton, who was naked in her dressing room during a photo shoot in Los Angeles. Hilton was about to fly to Europe to meet Francis, whom she was dating at the time, he wrote.
Simkins wrote that he was delivering a Camel cigarette package filled with cocaine and Ecstasy to Hilton at the request of Francis:
"I took out the Camel box and handed it to her, and she thanked me. We talked for a minute or two about the apparent difficulty of procuring those drugs in Europe. I asked if she was flying private, and she said, 'No, commercial.' And then as politely as I could, I asked her how she planned on traveling with that amount of blow and X.
"She held the box in her right hand, and then with an underhand swoop like a lower case J, she demonstrated exactly how she intended to beat airport security. She even whistled as she did it."
He then describes how she placed the box between her legs and into her body.
Hilton was arrested in Las Vegas, Nevada, on a cocaine possession charge last month.
