During her darkest hours in captivity, former Colombian hostage Ingrid Betancourt considered death preferable to her ordeal, she said in an interview with CNN's "Connect the World."
Betancourt, who was kidnapped in 2002 during her campaign for the presidency and rescued in 2008, wrote about her experience in a new book, "Even Silence Has an End."
She recalled that late in her captivity at the hands of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, she became very ill. FARC declined to give her medication, and had her lie in a hammock for months, she said. Betancourt had seen other hostages die in similar circumstances in the jungle.
"And because I was in so much in pain in my body and I was kind of unplugging mentally, in the sense that I couldn't just concentrate on anything, I thought that perhaps it was a good moment to just, you know," Betancourt said, referring to dying.
In that moment, she said, she preferred death because it would reunite her with her father.
"And, also, I thought that it could be a liberation thing for my children, because they had to stop their lives," Betancourt said.
That feeling was just one episode in her 6 1/2 years in captivity.
Writing the book, she said, brought her to "very deep memories, to places I thought I had forgotten and to situations that were very painful."
The writing process would leave her physically exhausted at the end of the day.
Betancourt was freed in a high-profile helicopter rescue mission in July 2008. Colombian commandos posed as humanitarian aid workers to free the group, which included three U.S. military contractors and 11 Colombian police and military members.
Her book is not the first to touch on her time as a hostage.
In a memoir published last year, the U.S. military contractors rescued along with Betancourt painted an unflattering portrait of the dual citizen of France and Colombia, describing her as someone who hoarded belongings and let her temper flare during their time in the rebel camp.
For her part, Betancourt admits that she was not the most popular.
"We hear the news and they talk about the hostages and the only name that comes up on and on and on is mine," she said. "By not having their names, it was just another humiliation. It was just another torture for them, not knowing if people knew they were there, what was happening with their families."
The guerrillas who held them were also keen on keeping the hostages divided. This, she suspects, was so that they would not unite and attempt an escape together.
Much of the guerrillas' treatment of their hostages was meant to be cruel and designed to strip away their identities, Betancourt said.
"So, for me, it was important to preserve my dignity in the sense of preserving my soul, preserving the things that I thought were important for me to give. And that was a struggle," she said.
One way she did this was by showing defiance.
When her captors ordered the hostages to identify themselves by numbers, she refused.
Although her fellow hostages started counting off, when it came to be her turn, she just answered, "Ingrid Betancourt."
"I didn't want to be a number. I didn't want to be an object," she said. "They were referring to us like cargo. And I thought that was horrible. And I didn't want them to get away with that. So I think I was a little like a troublemaker, in some aspects."
That streak also partly led to divisions between her and the other hostages, she said.
After such lows, how did Betancourt survive the long years?
"To put it in just one word, I think it was love," she said. "The love of my children and the love of my mother."
Reflecting on the current political situation in Colombia, the former candidate said that the country is in better shape than when she was abducted. There remains, however, what she called a crucial problem: a disconnect between those who live in the cities very comfortably, and those in the countryside who are affected by the violence of the FARC and other rebel groups.
"We have 4 million misplaced people in Colombia. And that's because of the war," she said.
