Most people probably recognize Kate Micucci from her current role on Fox's "Raising Hope" or from her stint on NBC's "Scrubs" as Stephanie Gooch, a musician who performed for patients. But what made that first "Scrubs" character special was that Gooch was specifically written for Micucci and her rather unusual talent: playing the ukulele.
"I auditioned for 'Scrubs' and they saw the (YouTube ukulele) videos and thought, well why don't we write this girl a part," she says. "So they made me a ukulele player."
One video in particular that truly helped spawn Micucci's acting career was her song "Dear Deer." It starts:
Dear deer: I am writing you a letter In the hopes that you'll know better Not to go in the woods in Pennsylvania 'Cause my dad's in a tree waiting to kill ya Just be warned
Micucci recalls how the videos began: "This great director, Raul Fernandez, saw me singing at a little art gallery and he was like, 'Hey, I'd love to make a video for you.' I said OK."
Acting aside, true fans probably now love her best as being one half of the comedy singing duo Garfunkel & Oates. The other half is her good friend and fellow actress Riki Lindhome.
(For those of you who are wondering, Riki is "Garfunkel," thus making Kate "Oates.")
Micucci and Lindhome's music act also harnessed the power of YouTube, and they eventually reached a certain level of stardom with their politically motivated tune "Sex With Ducks," in which they rejoice in the exciting possibilities from the slippery slope of legalizing gay marriage:
Pat Robertson once said, It's a long downward slide That'll lead to legalizing sex with ducks If two men can stand side by side God, I hope he's right 'Cause if gay marriage becomes lawful Gonna find myself a duck And legally do Something awful
No ducks were available for comment.
In February, Garfunkel & Oates released their debut album "All Over Your Face," and the two continue to perform regularly.
When Kate met with CNN in Chicago, she didn't have her ukulele. However, CNN presented her with a used $60 ukulele purchased earlier from a little shop down the street. After careful inspection, Kate said, "It sounds great! ... Good purchase!"
And then she performed a funny song about napping with a stranger.
