(CNN Student News) -- November 19, 2013
On this day 150 years ago, President Lincoln gave one of the most famous speeches in U.S. history. To mark its anniversary, CNN Student News shares 5 Things to Know about the Gettysburg Address. We also report on the aftermath of severe weather in the Midwestern U.S., and we discuss a new iceberg that broke off Antarctica. Plus, we examine the Federal Reserve's impact on the stock market.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
In 1863, how do you think the Gettysburg Address might have been covered by Union and Confederate newspapers? What different perspectives might Civil War-era readers have had on the address?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Enhanced Fujita Scale
2. Dow Jones Industrial Average
3. Gettysburg Address
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Describe the effects of Sunday's severe weather in the Midwest. What images from the report most stick out in your mind?
2. What milestone did the Dow temporarily reach yesterday? Why did CNN's Richard Quest say these times for the market are "not normal"?
3. How large is the iceberg featured in today's program? Why is this iceberg causing concern?
Discussion Questions:
1. Based on what you heard in today's report, what do you think might be the potential benefits and risks of investing in the stock market right now?
2. How would you describe the legacy of the Gettysburg Address? What circumstances might result in a speech being remembered throughout history?
3. What unique skills and abilities do you think it might take to be a professional race car driver? Do you think these abilities are learned or innate? Do you agree or disagree with former NFL quarterback Donovan McNabb's comments regarding race car drivers? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Washington, Illinois; Gettysburg, Pennsylvania
Antarctica
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
