(CNN Student News) -- September 4, 2013
As the U.S. government debates taking action against Syria, CNN Student News identifies some of the key players involved in the discussion. We also report on a virus that's affecting dolphins along the U.S. coast, and we break down a battle in the world of smartphone market control. Plus, the latest CNN Student News Viewfinder offers some students' ideas on the biggest challenges facing teens today.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Do televised, congressional hearings regarding events in Syria have an influence on U.S. public opinion? If so, how? If not, why not?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. congressional leaders
2. Cetacea
3. smartphone market
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Who are the leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate?
2. What has caused a recent outbreak of dolphin deaths in the Atlantic Ocean?
3. What cell phone company is Microsoft buying for more than $7 billion?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think President Obama decided to seek congressional authorization for a U.S. military strike against Syria? How might the different perspectives of the officials outlined in today's show affect how Congress responds? Explain.
2. What benefits and challenges might come along with Microsoft's decision to buy a cell phone manufacturer? If you were to buy a smartphone, what factors would influence your selection?
3. What was your reaction to the challenges mentioned by the young people in today's program? What are some challenges you've faced in your life? How did you handle them?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
Europe
Rotterdam, Netherlands
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
