Striker Emmanuel Adebayor has committed himself to Arsenal by signing a new contract with the English Premier League club.
Emmanuel Adebayor has been a big success since joining Arsenal from French club Monaco.
The Togo international has been the subject of much speculation this summer, with Italian club AC Milan making their interest in the player well known, and he was also linked with Barcelona.
Arsenal were determined to keep the 24-year-old despite putting a reported $70 million price tag on him, and Adebayor revealed at the start of this month that he would sign a new contract.
The terms of the deal were not disclosed by the London outfit, who described it as a "long-term contract."
"Arsenal can confirm that Togolese forward Emmanuel Adebayor has signed a new long-term contract with the club," read a statement on the club's Web site on Monday. "Everyone at Arsenal looks forward to Emmanuel's continued contribution to the club over the coming years."
The UK Press Association reported that the deal was worth around $160,000 a week and would tie the former Monaco striker to Arsenal until at least 2012.
Adebayor scored 30 goals in all competitions last season, and was named in the PFA Team of the Year. He also finished in third place in the PFA Player of the Year.
However, fans started to turn on him during pre-season as it became apparent that he would not turn down a move away from Arsenal, and he was again booed by sections of the crowd during Saturday's Premier League opener against West Brom.
However, manager Arsene Wenger said the player had his full support.
"We have to get behind him and support him because he is a tremendous force and is of tremendous importance for the team -- you want your own fans to be behind him," Wenger told PA.
"What happened in the transfer period did not always reflect his deep desire and there was manipulation from agents on both sides, but overall I am positive he will recover. Every player needs to feel wanted. I think he is settled in his own mind. He has given a lot in the first two games."
Arsenal defeated West Brom 1-0 with a goal from summer signing Samir Nasri to follow up last Wednesday's 2-0 victory against Dutch side Twente in the first leg of their Champions League third-round qualifier.
The Gunners travel to London rivals Fulham on Saturday, then play the home leg against former England manager Steve McClaren's Twente on the following Wednesday.
