Charlie Sheen advises people to stay away from crack cocaine "unless you can manage it socially," which he told a radio interviewer Monday he could.
Sheen, who has been undergoing substance abuse rehab treatments at home, said he is currently "peeing clean," and the producers of his hit sitcom should take advantage of it while they can.
The actor spoke glibly to the syndicated "The Dan Patrick Show" Monday morning on a variety of subjects, from drug and alcohol use to baseball.
"I healed really quickly, but I also unravel really quickly, so get me right now guys," Sheen said. "Get me right now."
During the interview, the actor said "it's hard to say" how long he's been clean, saying he doesn't use the term "'sober' anymore, I'm not in AA, I don't believe in it."
Dr. Drew Pinsky, a California-based addiction specialist, told HLN's Jane Velez-Mitchell that Sheen's rationalization of his substance abuse issues are an example of what he called "stinking thinking."
"Here he's had these horrific consequences, and he thinks he's on the right path," said Pinsky, who has an MTV reality series on celebrity addiction and will helm his own HLN show starting this spring. "As a physician, I can tell that this is going to have a very, very unhappy ending."
CBS placed "Two and a Half Men" on "production hiatus" after the actor began rehab treatments in the wake of an emergency hospital visit last week.
Sheen said in Monday's interview that he was surprised by what he called a "forced hiatus."
"I went back to work and you know, I was banging on the door stage door like, 'Hello! Where's everybody?' I don't know what happened, I guess they're closed," he said.
Shooting is scheduled to resume at the end of February, Sheen's representative told CNN earlier this month.
"I believe August of 2014 at this pace, I don't know," Sheen joked Monday. "It's supposed to be like the 28th or the 29th. That's what it is, it's the 29th of the nonleap year."
CBS and Warner Bros Television, which produces the show, declined to comment on Sheen's statements.
Sheen issued a written statement just two weeks ago thanking the network executives for their support.
"I have a lot of work to do to be able to return the support I have received from so many people," Sheen said in a statement. "Like Errol Flynn, who had to put down his sword on occasion, I just want to say, 'thank you.' "
While Sheen doesn't like to use the term "sober," he said Monday, "It's off and on, you know."
The triggers for his infamous partying "tends to do with boredom," he said.
"It's never been about 'Everybody else is drinking, I should too,' " he said. "It's about what that makes things better, whether that's real or imagined."
Sheen was "very, very intoxicated, also apparently in a lot of pain" on the morning of January 27, according to a 911 call from a doctor who had just talked to the actor.
Porn actress Kacey Jordan has told media outlets that a two-day party preceded Sheen's collapse.
Paramedics went to Sheen's Los Angeles home and then took him by ambulance to a hospital, where he spent several hours.
While his representative blamed a hernia for Sheen's pain, he later announced the actor is undergoing rehab at home.
