Identifying the world's finest airports is easy. Hong Kong International Airport, Singapore's Changi and Seoul's Incheon have topped the ranks of airport awards for the last decade.
Sitting comfortably? Not at Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport, ranked by some as one of the worst.
These 21st-century airports boast the best shopping, classiest restaurants, as well as features such as indoor pools, orchid gardens, and free wireless Internet. See world's best airports
The world's worst airports, however, are harder to pin down. It's a crowded field to choose from and the choice depends on what you class as bad. See our pick of the world's worst airports »
If it's for danger, then Baghdad International Airport, in the middle of a war zone, should rank pretty high.
Lukla airstrip -- gateway to the Mount Everest region in Nepal -- is also a strong contender.
Landing involves a hair-raising plummet onto an uphill airstrip cut into the side of a mountain. On takeoff, the airstrip comes to an abrupt end at the edge of a mountain cliff.  What do you think is the world's worst airport? Sound off below
Watch CNN's Ayesha Durgahee examine what it takes to become Airport of the year in Hong Kong. »
In 2007, TripAdvisor asked travelers to rank airports according to how easy they are to navigate, the cleanliness of the lavatories and parking facilities.
Based on these factors, the 2,500 respondents classed London Heathrow and Chicago O'Hare as the world's most hated.
Yet neither of these major hubs appeared in Foreign Policy magazine's review of the five worst airports, published in 2007.
The list here included the likes of Mineralnye Vody airport in Russia for its feral cats and daggers on sale in the departure lounge.
Charles de Gaulle also gains little affection from those that pass through its interminable terminals. As Foreign Policy says, "visitors to Paris should expect more than the grimy terminals, rude staff, confusing layout, and overpriced food."
Where was your worst airport experience in 2008? Which airport do you think is the most dangerous, uncomfortable or aggravating? Sound Off below
We're also looking for photos and video of your worst airport experiences. Send them to the Business Traveller page on CNN iReport
Here's your chance to grumble.
