Friends and family of actress Farrah Fawcett -- including longtime partner Ryan O'Neal and their son Redmond, who was temporarily freed from jail for the service -- gathered Tuesday to say goodbye.
Actress Farrah Fawcett, known for her blond mane and gleaming smile, died Thursday at age 62.
Fawcett, the blond-maned actress whose best-selling poster and "Charlie's Angels" stardom made her one of the most famous faces in the world, died Thursday. She was 62, and had suffered from anal cancer off and on for three years.
Tuesday's service at the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels in downtown Los Angeles was private and closed to the media. The family did not release details about the service, but "Charlie's Angels" co-star Kate Jackson and former model Cheryl Tiegs were among those seen entering. Ryan O'Neal helped carry Fawcett's casket from the hearse into the church.
Fawcett's beauty -- her gleaming smile was printed on millions of posters -- initially made her famous. But she later established herself as a serious actress. She starred as a battered wife in the 1984 TV movie "The Burning Bed," and appeared on stage as a woman who extracts vengeance from a would-be rapist in William Mastrosimone's play "Extremities," a performance she reprised on film in 1986.
Other Fawcett films include "Logan's Run" (1976), "Saturn 3" (1980), "The Cannonball Run" (1981), "The Apostle" (1997) and the Robert Altman-directed "Dr. T and the Women" (2000).
But to many, Fawcett will always be best known for her red-swimsuited image on the pinup poster, which sold a reputed 12 million copies after its release in 1976.
Redmond O'Neal, 24, was arrested in September when deputies found methamphetamine during a probation search at the Malibu, California, home of his father, Ryan O'Neal. The younger O'Neal was on probation for a 2008 felony drug conviction involving heroin and methamphetamine.
Monday's court order allowed Redmond O'Neal out of jail for up to three hours for the funeral. A sheriff's deputy was to accompany him at all times, according to the order, issued in Los Angeles County Superior Court.
O'Neal was allowed to wear civilian clothes for the funeral. iReport.com: Fawcett's funeral 'heartbreaking'
He is undergoing what the sheriff's department has called an "intense drug rehabilitation program" in the Los Angeles county jail.
CNN's Alan Duke and Karen Bonsignore contributed to this report.
