Paula Broadwell, a woman who was romantically involved with former CIA Director David Petraeus, will not face federal charges of cyberstalking another woman friendly with Petraeus.
The U.S. Attorney's Office in Tampa informed Broadwell's attorney Robert Muse of the decision in a brief letter dated December 14.
"As the target of our investigation, we believe that it is appropriate to advise your client that our office has determined that no federal charges will be brought" regarding allegations of cyberstalking, Assistant U.S. Attorney W. Stephen Muldrow wrote.
Muse told CNN he was "very pleased that the U.S. Attorney's office in Tampa very promptly resolved this matter."
A source close to Broadwell said the letter had been received Monday.
"She's pleased with the prosecutor's decision and glad it's been resolved," the source told CNN.
Read more: After Petraeus scandal, Broadwell grapples with 'normal life'
Petraeus resigned November 9 after revealing that he'd been involved in an extramarital affair.
U.S. officials said the FBI discovered Petraeus was involved with Broadwell, a woman who was under investigation for sending allegedly harassing and anonymous e-mails to Jill Kelley, a Tampa socialite who was friendly with Petraeus and his wife.
Sources close to Kelley said she had not been romantically involved with Petraeus.
During the investigation the FBI obtained Broadwell's computer and discovered she had classified materials. Investigators also searched Broadwell's home in North Carolina. Sources said the materials were technically classified but not highly sensitive. Still the FBI and Justice Department prosecutors have not resolved whether Broadwell will face charges for having such materials in her personal possession.
Sources close to Broadwell acknowledged that issue has not been resolved.
Broadwell, 40, wrote a biography of Petraeus, a retired general who led U.S. forces in Iraq and later in Afghanistan. A former Army reservist, Broadwell's security clearance was suspended after details surfaced about her possessing classified materials.
During the investigation it also came to light that Kelley and Army Gen. John Allen were exchanging e-mails, some of which might have been considered inappropriate. That matter was turned over to the Pentagon's inspector general for investigation.
Read more: Jill Kelley defends reputation after Petraeus scandal
