Sebastian Vettel has at times made his domination of Formula One look effortless, but the triple world champion insists his supremacy is the result of tireless work from his all-conquering Red Bull team.
The German has taken the checkered flag at each of the last three grands prix, extending his lead at the top of the drivers' championship to 60 points with just six races of the 2013 season remaining.
With a fourth consecutive world title all but in the bag, Vettel has paid tribute to the team which have powered his RB9 car to the front of the grid.
"I have very little information about what others are doing, but I can say that we're one of the hardest working teams and thus deserve to be where we are right now," the 26-year-old told F1's official website.
"This is not only a question of quantity -- how many more hours you put in -- but very much about quality."
Vettel's occupation of the podium has led to a backlash from some fans, with the former Toro Rosso driver consistently booed by fans during the season.
He was most recently jeered after winning the Singapore Grand Prix.
Vettel is unmoved by the negativity, putting it down to fans who are disappointed with him consistently finishing ahead of their favorite drivers.
"I am relaxed about it," he said. "I think the media exaggerate this matter. It is not that hordes of people boo -- it is only a small percentage.
"And isn't it so that every fan has the right to cheer for his own team and show disappointment when the others win? I think those who booed were Ferrari fans who obviously were disappointed that we again finished ahead of them.
"No big deal for us. The thing that matters is to know that we again did everything right -- that you can be satisfied with your performance."
Vettel's nearest rival Fernando Alonso, who drives for Ferrari, hasn't given up hope of clinching his third world championship going into this weekend's Korean Grand Prix.
And the Spaniard is urging his team to take heart from Oracle Team USA's incredible comeback recently against Emirates Team New Zealand in sailing's America's Cup.
The Americans trailed 8-1 before roaring back to retain the Auld Mug trophy.
"The president (Luca di Montezemolo) and me think anything can happen," Alonso told Autosport.com.
"Like the America's Cup, we saw the American team was 1-8 down and they won 9-8.
"We know it would be difficult, but if you have two lucky races, things can change very quickly. But we need a lot of luck; we know that.
"We need to be realistic because we don't have the pace to beat them in normal conditions, so we need luck in all six races.
"If we have luck, everybody can be sure that we will be there to take [advantage]. We will not give up until it's mathematically impossible."
