Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes "amicably settled" their divorce just two weeks after Holmes filed for it, an attorney told CNN Monday.
While no details of their agreement are public, the former couple said they are "working together" in the "best interests" of their young daughter.
In the June 28 divorce filing, Holmes sought sole custody of 6-year-old Suri. Holmes and Cruise have been married for five years.
"Tom is really pleased we got there, and so am I," Cruise lawyer Bert Fields said.
"We are thrilled for Katie and her family and are excited to watch as she embarks on the next chapter of her life," said Holmes' attorney Jonathan Wolfe.
Wolfe thanked Cruise's lawyers "for their professionalism and diligence that helped bring about this speedy resolution."
Another one of Holmes' attorneys, Allan Mayefsky, said the divorce was "amicably settled."
"The terms of the settlement are confidential," Mayefsky said. "The parties have issued a joint statement regarding this resolution. We will have no further comment."
That statement, prepared jointly by Cruise, 50, and Holmes, 33, was sent to CNN by Cruise publicist Amanda Lundberg.
"We are committed to working together as parents to accomplishing what is in our daughter Suri's best interests," the statement said. "We want to keep matters affecting our family private and express our respect for each other's commitment to each of our respective beliefs and support each other's roles as parents."
Her lawyers and publicist sent a second statement later Monday responding to what they called "various reports regarding the purported terms of the settlement agreement."
"There are numerous inaccuracies in the reports regarding the purported contents of the agreement reached between the parties," the Holmes statement said. "The agreement is confidential and its terms will not be disclosed."
The Church of Scientology, with which Cruise is closely associated, declined to weigh in on the divorce settlement when contacted by CNN on Monday.
"With respect to Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes divorce, the church has no comment," spokeswoman Karin Pouw said. "Please direct any questions to their representatives. This is and always was a private family matter and the church will continue to respect their privacy."
Tom Cruise divorce raises question: What is Scientology, anyway?
Photos: Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes through the years
CNN's Rachel Wells and Carolyn Sung contributed to this report.
