British-based satellite channel Sky Sports have sacked their top soccer pundit after he made sexist remarks about a female match official while working on a broadcast of an English Premier League game.
Andy Gray, a former Scotland and Everton striker, made the comments about assistant referee Sian Massey prior to a match between Wolves and Liverpool on Saturday, not realizing his microphone was being recorded.
Gray, 55, said "women don't understand the offside rule," while his colleague, presenter Richard Keys, said the game had "gone mad."
The pair were suspended by Sky Sports on Monday, but on Tuesday it was confirmed Gray had been axed after new evidence of sexist behavior relating to an incident in December was released by the channel.
A statement read: "Sky Sports today terminated its contract with Andy Gray. The decision, which is effective immediately, was made in response to new evidence of unacceptable and offensive behavior.
"The new evidence, relating to an off-air incident that took place in December 2010, came to light after Andy Gray had already been subjected to disciplinary action for his comments of 22 January 2011."
Barney Francis, managing director of Sky Sports, said: "Andy Gray's contract has been terminated for unacceptable behavior. After issuing a warning yesterday, we have no hesitation in taking this action after becoming aware of new information today."
Sky Sports reporter Andy Burton, who joked to Gray that Massey was "a bit of a looker" prior to the match has also been suspended.
Keys subsequently telephoned Massey, who accepted the presenter's apology.
During the game, Massey made the correct call when she allowed Liverpool's opening goal in their 3-0 victory to stand, judging a player had been onside.
The 25-year-old was due to officiate an English third division match on Tuesday night but was withdrawn by the Professional Games Match Officials.
A statement read: "Sian is an excellent professional who has unwittingly found herself in the middle of a story that has nothing to do with her competence as a match official.
"Sian only wants to be notable for her performance as an assistant referee and is keen for things to get back to normal so she can return to officiating as soon as possible."
Prior to Saturday's game, Massey has been an assistant referee at international matches -- the highest level of the sport -- since 2009, world soccer's governing body FIFA says.
England's Football Association (FA) said it was "proud to have some of the world's best match officials, both male and female."
More than 800 women are qualified to be referees in England, the FA added, saying "all of our female match officials act as fantastic ambassadors for the game."
Of the major European footballing nations, Germany leads the way for registered female referees with 2,489, according to UEFA. Italy is next with 1,453 and England third with 853.
But no female referee has ever taken charge of a top-flight match in the English Premier League, Italy's Serie A, the German Bundesliga or Spain's La Liga, their roles restricted to assistant referee status.
Keys also made critical remarks about Karren Brady, the vice-chairman of EPL side West Ham, who had complained about sexism in a Saturday newspaper.
"See charming Karren Brady this morning complaining about sexism? Yeah. "Do me a favor, love," he added.
