Gunshots inside a celebrity-filled Sunset Strip party hosted by Chris Brown wounded three people early Sunday, a Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department spokesman said.
Former rap mogul Marion "Suge" Knight was among the wounded, a sheriff's deputy confirmed.
All three victims, two men and a woman, are expected to recover from their gunshot wounds, Deputy Jeff Gordon told CNN.
The shooting happened inside the 1 Oak club on Sunset Boulevard in West Hollywood at 1:30 a.m., Gordon said.
Brown posted a tweet after the incident: "It's disappointing that we as a society can't have fun or enjoy ourselves without any altercations sometimes. Miss me with the bulls**t!!!"
Brown, who is still on probation for beating singer and then-girlfriend Rihanna on the eve of the 2009 Grammys, was hosting the party as a celebration of the MTV Video Music Awards, which will be held in Los Angeles on Sunday.
A grainy cell phone video posted on Instagram shows Brown standing on the back of a couch and yelling in the aftermath of the shooting. Brown's bodyguard can be seen trying to get him down. The singer has colored his hair blond and is wearing a white shirt and jeans in the video.
Sheriff's investigators are handling the shooting investigation, and no arrests have been made, Gordon said.
One person inside the club tweeted, "So 1oak just got shut up. Everyone ducked and ran. Walked out of the club with 20 cops pointing rifles at us. Chris Brown was pissed."
Knight, 49, rose to fame and fortune after founding Death Row Records in 1991 and signing artists such as Snoop Doggy Dogg and Tupac Shakur.
Knight was driving the car which which Shakur was a passenger when the rapper was shot to death in Las Vegas in 1996.
Shortly afterward, Knight spent several years in prison for violating parole on assault and weapons convictions. That prison time -- along with Shakur's death, feuds between Knight and a number of rappers and desertions by Dr. Dre, Snoop and others -- contributed to the label's bankruptcy in 2006.
This was not Knight's first time being shot at a pre-VMA party. He was shot in his leg at a party hosted by rapper Kanye West at a Miami hotel on the eve of the 2005 VMA show.
Brown makes 'strides' to sobriety, 'personal growth,' doctor says
