(CNN Student News) -- March 4, 2014
This Tuesday, CNN Student News explains why everything from international relations to wheat prices may hinge on a crisis in Ukraine. From there, we move to Iran, where the government is encouraging residents to raise larger families. And we look at the threats that space "junk" poses to space travelers.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might news coverage of the crisis in Ukraine differ between American and Russian media? How might it differ among various media within Ukraine?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. global economy
2. space "junk"
3. Iditarod
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. According to the report: Who asked Russia to send troops into Ukraine? Why? What actions are being considered by the U.S. regarding this crisis? How has the crisis affected international markets and the prices of certain commodities?
2. Why have family sizes dropped in Iran since the 1980s? Why is Iran encouraging its citizens to have larger families? Why are some people hesitant to do this?
3. What is Iditarod known as? How long is the race? What does it commemorate? Who looks after the sled dogs?
Discussion Questions:
1. Are you concerned about the crisis in Ukraine? Why or why not? What questions do you have about this crisis? Can you think of other potential ripple effects it could cause? Explain.
2. To what extent, if any, can a government influence its citizens' family decisions? What kinds of stresses might underpopulation and overpopulation place on a country? Should economic conditions be considered when people decide whether to have children? Why or why not?
3. Why do you think that space "junk" hasn't been removed from orbit? Do you think it should influence decisions regarding space travel? Explain. In your opinion, how important is space travel?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
