Bayern Munich started where they left off last season by beating Wolfsburg 2-1 in the curtain raise to the German Bundesliga.
But the German champions, who ran away with the 2013/214 league title, were pegged back for long periods of the game and can count themselves lucky not have conceded a chance late on that Junior Malanda somehow missed from inches out.
Pep Guardiola's side was missing a host of first team starters with Bastian Schweinsteiger, Franck Ribery, Thiago, Javi Martinez and Jerome Boateng all absent thanks to a mixture of injuries and suspensions.
That meant that Guardiola was forced to hand 17 year old Gianluca Gaudino his first ever Bayern start.
Yet it was Wolfsburg that were the most impressive in the opening stages until German international Thomas Mueller stabbed home and gave Bayern the lead before half time.
And things got worse for Wolfsburg when Arjen Robben, in scintillating form and showing no signs of fatigue after an excellent World Cup this summer for The Netherlands, sprinted through and placed his shot in the net.
Wolfsburg quickly replied through the veteran Croatia striker Ivica Olic, who curled home a wonderful long range shot into the top left hand corner past a beaten Manuel Neuer.
But the match will perhaps be best remembered for what will surely go down as one of the misses of the season, even at this early stage.
Belgian midfielder Malanda forced a superb save from Neuer, who deflected his shot on to the bar. The rebound hit Malanda, standing on the line, and it rolled harmlessly wide.
After that, Bayern held on for the perfect start to the season.
PSG held
Meanwhile in France, Paris Saint Germain continued their stuttering start to the season with a 0-0 draw against Evian after seeing new signing Yohan Cabaye sent off.
With Zlatan Ibrahimovic and captain Thiago Silva out injured, and Thiago Motta, who was on the receiving end of a vicious headbutt after PSG's 2-0 win over Bastia last week, only on the bench, the champions couldn't break a resolute Evian down.
PSG had most of the possession and play until the 62nd minute when Cabaye, a summer signing from Newcastle United who has been on an extended break since representing France at this summer's World Cup, was sent off for a second bookable offense.
Life got easier for Evian after the sending off and they might have snatched victory at the death when Nicolas Benezet's shot was kept out by Italian goalkeeper Salvatore Sirigu.
Despite being one of the richest clubs in the world after their Qatari buy out, PSG have now drawn two and won one of their first three games and will be counting the days until Ibrahimovich returns.
Late start in Spain
In Spain the second leg of the Super Cup between Atletico Madrid and Read Madrid was was due to kick off at the Vincent Calderon late Friday. The first leg between the Madrid rivals ended 1-1.
