The term of service for the president should be extended from its current four years -- renewable once -- to a single term of "a little more than four years," Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan said Tuesday in a statement.
He said he will send a bill to National Assembly to pass the changes to the constitution that would set the parameters he is seeking. It will be his first bill since he took the reins of power in April.
Jonathan insisted he would not benefit from the change, since it would not go into effect until the next election, in 2015. But it was not clear that he was being sincere. Several presidential sources told CNN that Jonathan is pushing for a six- or seven-year term. And, though he implied this year during a speech in East Africa that he would not run again in 2015, Jonathan has never made such a statement publicly in Nigeria.
The last elections, in April, were among the most violent in the country's history and influential elements (particularly from the predominantly Muslim north of the country who feel it is their turn to have the presidency) staunchly oppose his extending his hold on power.
April's elections pitted residents of the country's north against those of the (predominantly Christian) south, where Jonathan is from. Since then, violence in the north has escalated -- much of it attributed to the Islamic militant group Boko Haram and almost daily attacks in the northeastern city of Maiduguri.
Such violence could escalate still further, as could attacks in the capital city of Abuja, where many residents resent what they consider to have been Jonathan's hijacking of the election from the north.
Though Jonathan took power in May, his hold on it remains tenuous: He has yet to form a complete cabinet; has failed to push through passage of a major petroleum bill; and has failed to quell violence in the north.
Public expectation is for him to encourage economic growth and investment, as well as private reforms in the power sector -- the two main issues of his campaign platform. It would be difficult to focus on these two major areas if the start of his presidency is focused on such a controversial bill.
The length of the presidential term has been a hot-button issue for years. Jonathan's predecessor, Olusegun Obasanjo, attempted to run for a third term before his constitutionally approved two-term limit expired in 2007. That bid failed in the face of opposition from the north.
Jonathan's bill could be seen as a "rebranding" of Obasanjo's attempt to push third-term bill.
In his envisaged bill, the tenure of members of the National and State assemblies would also be extended to a little more than four years, though lawmakers would be eligible for re-election.
Jonathan said his commitment to a single term for the president and governors was a reflection of his belief that a longer term would help stabilize society and strengthen democracy.
It would minimize the acrimony and unrest that quadrennial elections generate at the federal and state levels, he said, adding that it would also save the government the expense of conducting party primaries and general elections every four years.
"The proposed amendment bill is necessary to consolidate our democracy and allow elected executives to concentrate on governance and service delivery for their full term, instead of running governments with re-election as their primary focus," he said.
Jonathan noted that "certain reports in a section of the media" had interpreted his move as an attempt to lengthen his hold on power. But, he added, "Nothing can be more untrue. The energy that has been devoted to speculations on the content of the likely bill is akin to an attempt to force the abortion of a nonexistent pregnancy. The details of the bill will be clear in terms of its provisions when it is forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration."
