With memories of a monster Christmas blizzard still fresh, another blast of winter weather charged across eastern states Friday, with winter advisories issued as far south as middle Georgia.
A large complex winter system stretched across the Northeast Friday, making for messy commutes in cities like Philadelphia, but bringing fewer inches of accumulation than the massive storm that paralyzed much of New York less than two weeks ago.
By Friday afternoon, 391 flights at New York's three major airports had been canceled as a result of snow, according to spokesman Steve Coleman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
"Overall we're talking less than 10 percent of the normal traffic," Coleman said. "Most of these flights were canceled before the snow even really started."
Twenty flights at Philadelphia International Airport also were canceled as the storm rolled through the region, causing minor delays at Logan International Airport in Boston, officials said.
Several major airlines -- including American, United/Continental, U.S. Airways and Delta -- announced that their customers could voluntarily reschedule flights to and from snow-affected areas without penalty.
Southwest Airlines expanded the option for passengers flying in and out of not just New York and Pennsylvania airports but also Washington Dulles and Baltimore/Washington airports.
The National Weather Service issued winter storm warnings, watches and advisories for portions of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts and Vermont for Friday. Separate alerts also were issued for parts of Kentucky, Tennessee and North Carolina.
Forecasters projected between 2 and 4 inches of snow across the greater New York City area, with heavier amounts expected over eastern sections of Long Island. Snow was predicted later in the weekend for Atlanta and areas even farther south.
"I spoke to a couple of folks and they're just worried about the cleanup work afterwards," said New York resident
Hoyman Leung. "The last round, they were certainly deficient."
Emergency workers, criticized for their slow response to the blizzard two weeks ago, will get another chance to prove themselves. Mayor Michael Bloomberg said New York has already instituted a series of changes.
The heavy snow over the Christmas weekend hampered morning commuters, delayed first responders and even prevented aircraft service personnel from reaching airports where 29 international flights were stuck on the tarmac for more than three hours, officials said.
Following sharp criticism of the city's slow response, John Doherty, the chief of the sanitation department, has made management and personnel shake-ups in Brooklyn.
An investigation is currently under way into whether sanitation workers intentionally delayed cleanup efforts over frustrations about demotions and citywide budget cuts.
Bloomberg also announced that a handful of the city's 1,700 snow plows will be fitted with global positioning systems in a pilot program meant to better track the vehicles.
"It gives us the ability to check on the location and progress of our snow plows," Bloomberg told reporters, saying that the devices will be added to some trucks in New York's Brooklyn and one station in Queens, where many residents were left snowbound by the previous storm.
The city is also deploying scout teams to transmit video images of neighborhoods back to City Hall during cleanup efforts, the mayor said.
