From style icons like Tom Ford to glamorous locations like China, last year Art of Life brought you the best of good living.
Monita Rajpal at the Great Wall of China for Art of Life
This month we look back on some of our favorite moments from the past 12 months.
Tom Ford exclusive
No one sums up Art of Life's aspirational brief better than fashion guru Tom Ford. Join Monita Rajpal as she gains exclusive access to the man who brought glamour back into fashion with his reign at Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent. We revisit the launch of Tom Ford's own brand and gain exclusive insight into his feelings about leaving Gucci and his own personal strategy for the future. We catch up with him at his Mayfair home and visit some of his own favorite London haunts.
Watch:  Monita Rajpal with Tom Ford »
The empress of Chinese contemporary art: Pearl Lam
Outlandish and outspoken Pearl Lam is the doyenne of China's contemporary art scene. Part party-girl, part intellectual aesthete, Pearl introduces us to some of the hottest names in Chinese contemporary art. We meet two ground-breaking members of the Chinese literati - Shao Fan and Zhang Huan - who are drawing on Chinese tradition and history to explore a rapidly changing modern culture. We find out why Chinese Art is experiencing such a boom in the West and how the western perception of Chinese Art differs from the Chinese view.
Watch:  Pearl Lam on Chinese contemporary art »
Luxury Investing
Horse Racing has long been known as the 'sport of kings' but it is no longer just for the super rich. The smart moneyed classes are now forming syndicates in a bid to win prize money and secure breeding fees. CNN's European Political Editor and racing enthusiast, Robin Oakley, uncovers the world of horse syndicates.
Whether old-school classics or flashy sports models are your thing, cars are always a popular investment. Justin Armsden gets behind the wheel of the highly sought after new Rolls Royce Drophead Coupé.
Watch:  Justin Armsden drive the Rolls Royce Drophead Coupé » E-mail to a friend
