Manchester United were held to a 2-2 draw at Old Trafford by West Bromwich Albion in the English Premier League on Saturday.
A mistake by goalkeeper Edwin Van Der Sar gifted the visitors an equalizer 10 minutes into the second half after Hernandez and Nani had given the Alex Ferguson's men a two goal lead before the break.
Van Der Sar's fumble from a Chris Brunt cross fell to the feet of Somen Tchoyi who pounced on the error to score after 55 minutes.
Tchoyi's effort came five minutes after Patrice Evra deflected a Brunt free-kick into his own net.
Ferguson left his star striker Wayne Rooney on the bench until the 71st minute but he couldn't force a winner as Man United poured forward in the closing stages.
The draw is the 2009 champions third in succession in the league and leaves them in third place on 14 points.
Arsenal moved up to second after they beat Birmingham City 2-1 at the Emirates.
The Gunners had to come from behind after Birmingham striker Nikola Zigic headed home from a Keith Fahey cross in the 33rd minute.
But it wasn't long before Arsenal were back on equal terms. Marouane Chamakh was awarded a penalty eight minutes later after being fouled. Sami Nasri stepped up to convert the spot kick.
And it was the Moroccan striker who secured all three points for the home side when he rounded Birmingham's keeper Ben Foster to record his fifth goal of his Arsenal career.
League leaders Chelsea could only manage a goalless draw against Aston Villa at Villa Park. The point keeps the 2010 champions five points clear of the chasing pack. Villa move up to eighth.
Despite the loss Birmingham remain 16th place in the table as strugglers Wolves and West Ham -- the Premier League's bottom two sides -- drew 1-1 at Molineux.
Matthew Jarvis had put the home side ahead in the 10th minute after he volleyed home a weak punched clearance from West Ham's keeper, Robert Green.
Despite dominating the first half, Wolves couldn't double their lead and were made to pay eight minutes into the second half when defender Kevin Foley brought down West Ham striker Victor Obinna.
Mark Noble stepped up to convert the penalty.
Tottenham Hotspur also came from behind to defeat their west London rivals Fulham 1-2 at Craven Cottage.
Goals from Roman Pavlyuchenko and Tom Huddlestone in either half secured the win for Spurs after Diomansy Kamara had given the Cottagers the lead after half an hour.
Wigan looked as though they were also on course for a notable away win at St James Park over Newcastle. But Argentine defender Fabricio Coloccini equalized for the home side in the fourth minute of added time at the end of the match.
Two goals in as many minutes by Ex-Newcastle striker Charles N'Zogbia midway through the first half gave Wigan a surprise lead.
Newcastle's efforts to get back into the game were thwarted until the 72nd minute when substitute Shola Ameobi gave the Magpies hope of a point when he scored from close range before Coloccini's late show.
The result leaves Wigan in 12th place, one point and one place ahead of Newcastle in the table.
Bolton Wanderers grabbed a last gasp winner at the Reebok Stadium to overcome Stoke City 2-1.
Lee Chung-Yong had given Bolton the lead in the first half with a stunning curling effort from 22 yards after 22 minutes.
Rory Delap equalized for Stoke early in the second half and the game looked as though it was heading for a draw until Ivan Klasnic scored the winner two minutes into stoppage time.
Klasnic didn't celebrate for long though as he was sent off moments later for a second bookable offence.
Everton host Liverpool in the Merseyside derby on Sunday, while Manchester City can make up ground on Chelsea if they win at Blackpool.
