(CNN)From the Plains to the Northeast, a second brutal winter storm in a week has left behind a deadly trail and record amounts of snow.
You can see it in the aftermath:  Canceled classes, grounded flights and massive piles of snow along roadways.
And we're only in early February.
The Boston area has gotten the worst of it.
Bean Town set a new record for snowiest seven-day period in the city's history with 40.2 inches, the National Weather Service reported.  Boston's average annual snowfall is 47 inches.  The city has already gotten more than that over the last two weeks.
It's a similar story in Chicago where the latest storm dumped 19.3 inches of snow.
The 16.2 inches recorded at O'Hare International Airport just Sunday were the most ever for any February day in the Windy City.  The city got as much snow Sunday as it had in all of January, Mayor Rahm Emanuel said.
And to add insult to injury.  "We don't have this much snow in Alaska right now," Chicago visitors Emma Marks and Daniel Dobbs told CNN affiliate WLS.
Authorities say at least 10 people have died as a result of the storm.
In Weymouth, Massachusetts, on Monday, a 57-year old pedestrian died after she was struck by a snowplow. The accident occurred at a condominium complex, and the incident is under investigation.
Two people died in car accidents in Nebraska as a result of slippery roads Sunday. The deaths occurred in Saunders and Lancaster counties, authorities said. In Ohio, Toledo Police Officer Michael Greenwood died while shoveling snow at home Sunday, a police spokesman said.
The six other deaths are one in Michigan, two in New York, two in Wisconsin and one in Pennsylvania.
Boston declared a snow emergency and banned on-street parking as snow piled up.  City schools will be closed again Tuesday.
The storm even forced Boston Mayor Marty Walsh to postpone the victory parade for the New England Patriots, who won the Super Bowl on Sunday night. The parade, which had been scheduled for Tuesday, will now happen a day later.
New Yorkers were told to be prepared for roads and sidewalks to turn icy as temperatures plummeted.  Overnight lows hit the single digits with wind chills knocking them into negative numbers.
Back in the Midwest, scores of schools closed Monday as Chicago coped with the snow.  Most schools systems will be back open Tuesday.
In Omaha, Nebraska, wet, heavy snow tested even heavy-duty snow blowers, CNN affiliate KETV reported.
"It kept coming and coming and coming," Frank Halpine said.
Monday was another ugly day for air travelers as more than 4,300 flights were canceled, according to Flightaware.com.  Another 500 flights have been scrubbed for Tuesday as well.
United, Delta, American, Virgin America, U.S. Airways, Southwest, Spirit and JetBlue all issued waivers that allow travelers to change flights without a penalty.
The air travel headache started over the weekend, with thousands of  flights canceled Sunday, many of them in and out of Chicago.  Boston, New York and Detroit were also hard hit.
Pennsylvania groundhog Punxsutawney Phil didn't have to suffer the snow, but still forecast six more weeks of winter at his annual Groundhog Day appearance Monday.
Legend has it that if Phil sees his shadow,  there will be six more weeks of winter weather. If he doesn't, there will be an early spring.
Nan Moore, who was visiting Punxsutawney to witness the prediction, correctly predicted the rodent's forecast.
"He's going to see his shadow," she said. "We're going to get more winter."
CNN's Michael Pearson, Faith Karimi, Joe Sutton and Brian Todd contributed to this report.
