(Instyle.com) -- It has been nearly 30 years since Princess Diana walked down the aisle at St. Paul's Cathedral and the world is anxious for another royal wedding of the same fairy tale proportions. And if Kate Middleton and Prince William's appearance at their friends' wedding over the weekend in England is any indication, the wait may be almost over.
The usually publicity-shy couple arrived together for the festivities in Gloucestershire and even smiled for photographers when exiting the church. (Adding fuel to the matrimonial speculation -- the couple had just returned from a safari in Kenya. Yet another reason they look so relaxed and happy?)
At the wedding, the always-elegant Kate wore a bright blue dress topped with a fitted black blazer and, in keeping with British tradition, an oversize hat -- hers accented with a feather. Prince William wore a dapper tailcoat and purple tie.
InStyle.com: The best dressed celebrity brides
Kate often lands on best-dressed lists for her princess-worthy fashion and, inevitably, her style is compared to Prince William's mother, Princess Diana. Surely the late princess would have approved of Kate's outfit on Saturday -- bright pops of color and full skirts are pages right out of Diana's style playbook. Like the people's princess, Kate is frequently seen in well-tailored clothes that flatter her figure without ever being overly revealing or too tight.
Princess Di isn't the only royal to whom Kate has been compared. Among others, Kate takes style cues from the royals of Monaco and shares a penchant for fedoras, as did Princess Grace of Monaco, classic trench coats a la Princess Caroline of Monaco and sporty equestrian style as seen on Princess Charlotte Casiraghi of Monaco.
InStyle.com: Kate Middleton's Spot-On Princess Style
The next biggest question after when in the royal wedding guessing game is who, as in which lucky designer will nab the honors of designing Kate Middleton's wedding dress? Will she opt for a relatively unknown name, as did Princess Diana when she asked David and Elizabeth Emanuel to design her dress? Or will she go to Bruce Oldfield who designed fellow royal Queen Rania of Jordan's dress for her big day?
Perhaps to the delight of fashionistas Kate will work with one of Britain's top designers like Stella McCartney, Christopher Bailey of Burberry, or Vivienne Westwood who famously designed the dress Carrie wore when she got jilted in the first "Sex and the City" movie?
One thing is for sure, all eyes will be on Kate Middleton to see how her fashion choices will evolve over the years. She has already scored points for her ladylike, princess-appropriate style and chances are once the title is official, the rest of the world will start copying her wardrobe and a Sotheby's auction of her closet to benefit her favorite charity is inevitable!
See more of Kate Middleton's best looks at InStyle.com.
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
