After months of allegations of racial profiling and poor relations between the police force and populace, officials in the New York city of Rochester are vowing to tackle the issues head-on, a city councilman said Saturday.
Adam McFadden told CNN that a 15-member commission will soon form to review the process by which citizens pursue complaints about police. The matter gained national attention in May after a woman was arrested while filming with her iPod camera a police encounter that she believed was a case of racial profiling.
"We are not in the policing business, we are in the people business," McFadden said of the committee's intent. "We will improve the relationship between police and this community."
Police Chief James Sheppard told CNN that he welcomed the initiative.
"A lot of concerns have been brought to our attention relative to our internal process, and we'd be open to any review and any suggestions that might improve it," he said.
McFadden made the announcement just over a month after sending a bristling letter to Sheppard, Mayor Thomas Richards and City Council President Lovely Warren in which he cites "an overwhelming number of calls" his office has gotten claiming improper treatment by police, most of them "made by people of color."
"The city of Rochester has lost control of its police force," McFadden's letter begins.
The councilman wrote that citizens' concerns about police were ignored and "seen as antagonistic." He said the force should hire more minority officers, as well as more people from Rochester, and should "stop racial profiling immediately."
"We are now suffering the consequences of years of neglect," McFadden wrote. "Our policing system is broken."
The councilman has been one of many to claim that the police force has disproportionately gone after blacks, compared to whites, especially when it comes to petty crimes.
According to statistics for males 16 to 30 years old from Rochester, 104 blacks and 26 whites were arrested for such crimes in 2000; 10 years later, 171 blacks and 20 whites were arrested. This is in a city whose populace is 38.5% black, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
Emily Good has said she filmed the interrogation of a black man by three white police officers in front of her house on May 12 because she was concerned it might be racial profiling.
She was arrested that night and charged with obstruction of governmental administration. Prosecutors dismissed the charge on June 27.
Good filed a claim this week, signaling her intent to sue Rochester police for their actions.
Sheppard, the police chief, declined to comment extensively on the pending lawsuit, predicting the issue will be resolved via the legal process.
"It will go through the courts, and we'll see where it ends up," he said.
Mike Mazzeo, head of the Rochester police union, claimed that threats were made against police officers after the incident.
"The whole situation just kind of blew up out of control," he said.
