A pregnant prison guard was accused Tuesday of having sex with an incarcerated cop killer, according to a source close to the investigation.
Federal Bureau of Prisons officer Nancy Gonzalez, 29, was arrested on suspicion of unlawful sexual abuse on a ward, according to a federal complaint.
Gonzalez had relationships in 2012 with two inmates at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn, authorities said.
The federal complaint did not mention the names of the inmates, but the source told CNN that one of them is Ronell Wilson, the presumed father. He was convicted of killing two police officers in March 2003.
In a recorded call, according to the complaint, Gonzalez told the second inmate about her pregnancy, allegedly by the other inmate: "I took a chance because I was so vulnerable and wanted to be loved and now I am carrying his child."
The guard said she "kind of got sucked into his world" and "felt like, well, why not give him a child as far as giving him some kind of hope," according to the complaint.
"People find love in the strangest places, and people get together in the most difficult circumstances," Gonzalez's attorney, Anthony Ricco, told CNN affiliate NY1.
"We live in a society where these events happen. They are unusual, but they are not uncommon."
Gonzalez allegedly told colleagues she became pregnant in June 2012, while she was having a relationship with Wilson. She is now eight months pregnant.
The Long Island resident was released Tuesday afternoon on $150,000 bond after an initial appearance.
An affidavit states that there are videotapes showing Gonzalez and the inmate spending several minutes alone together at various times. Other witnesses say they were seen "hugging and kissing."
Gonzalez could face a maximum sentence of 15 years if convicted of the charge.
"She's really distraught. I mean, she's in the worst place that a woman can be eight months pregnant," Ricco told NY1.
In March 2007, Wilson was sentenced to death for killing the two undercover officers, James Nemorin and Rodney Andrews, on Staten Island during a gun sale. He was the first person in the city to receive the death sentence from a federal jury since 1954.
His sentence was overturned in 2010 on procedural grounds. A new jury must now determine whether Wilson receives a death sentence or life in prison.
