(CNN)  -- A pair of second half goals from Lionel Messi gave Barcelona a 2-0 win over 10-man Real Madrid in the first leg of their Champions League semifinal in the Bernabeu Wednesday.
A scrappy and ill-tempered affair saw Real's Portuguese international defender Pepe sent off after 61 minutes with manager Jose Mourinho also dismissed to the stands for complaining about the decision.
Earlier, a melee in the tunnel at halftime had Barcelona reserve goalkeeper Jose Pinto shown a red card by German referee Wolfgang Stark.
It took a moment of typical Messi magic to break the deadlock, connecting with a fine cross from substitute Ibrahim Afellay for his 76th minute opener.
And with four minutes remaining, Messi rounded off a fine night for Barcelona with a majestic second, weaving his way through the Real defense to beat Iker Casillas with ease.
El Clasico: The billion dollar grudge match
It takes his tally for the season to 52, with 11 coming in the Champions League and leaves Real with an almost insurmountable task in the second leg in the Nou Camp next week.
Mourinho's men had worked hard to cancel out Barcelona as they had to such good effect in beating them in the final of the Copa del Rey last week and the tactics worked well in the first half.
Cristiano Ronaldo, the match winner in that final, came close with a shot which surprised Victor Valdes in the Barca goal and Mesut Ozil might have scored from the rebound.
Barcelona had the bulk of the possession without looking their threatening best until the match turned on Pepe's dismissal as he lunged for a high bouncing ball and caught Dani Alves.
The decision looked harsh and Mourinho was quick to show his displeasure and with the extra man it was Barcelona who capitalized with David Villa forcing a fine save from Casillas before Messi's double strike.
An angry Mourinho hit out at the referee's decision after the match.
"Another miracle with ten men wasn't possible," he told AFP.
"Yes, I think we are eliminated. We will go to Camp Nou with everything and to get a result but I can't see it.
"We will be without Pepe and (Sergio) Ramos who didn't do anything and neither did I. I just want to know why? Why did Pepe get sent off? I just want someone to explain. Why did it happen?"
With Manchester United also leading 2-0 from their away leg against Schalke Tuesday, the stage looks set for a repeat of the 2009 Champions League final, won by Barcelona.
