Martina Hingis has been given a two-year ban after testing positive for cocaine, the International Tennis Federation announced on Friday.
Hingis must forfeit $130,000 prize money and ranking points earned at Wimbledon and subsequent events.
The 27-year-old Swiss player was found to have tested positive for a metabolite of cocaine while competing at Wimbledon last year, the ITF said in a statement published on its Web site.
At the time the allegations first surfaced last November, Hingis dismissed the test results, calling the claims "horrendous" and "monstrous."
However, following a two-day hearing last month, an independent anti-doping tribunal confirmed the test results, the federation said.
The tribunal rejected the suggestion made on Hingis' behalf that there were doubts about the identity or integrity of the sample attributed to the tennis star, the statement said.
The former world number one spent three years out of the sport before returning to the tour in 2006, and won three titles in Kolkata, Roma and Tokyo.
The federation said Hingis would have to repay $130,000 prize money and ranking points won since last year's Wimbledon.
The federation said the ban would commence from October 1, 2007.
Hingis, a five-time Grand Slam champion and former Wimbledon winner, announced her retirement from the sport at the time the allegations emerged.
"I have no desire to spend the next seven years fighting doping officials," she told a press conference in Zurich at the time.
"I'm frustrated and angry because I believe I'm 100 percent innocent and accusations such as these don't provide me with the motivation to continue," she added.
WTA chief executive Larry Scott said in a statement: "We are saddened by this news as Martina has meant so much to fans the world over and made many positive contributions to the sport."
But he insisted that the WTA Tour fully supported the tribunal. "We support and will enforce the ruling of this independent tribunal under the Tennis Anti-Doping Program," he added.
Hingis has three weeks to appeal the decision. E-mail to a friend
