Argentina are into the quarterfinals of the 2011 Copa America after the hosts scored a comfortable 3-0 victory against Costa Rica in Cordoba.
Two goals from Atletico Madrid's Sergio Aguero and one from Real Madrid winger Angel di Maria secured the three points Sergio Batista's team needed to avoid an early exit from the quadrennial competition.
The two-time world champions advanced from Group A in second position, after Colombia defeated Bolivia 2-0 on Sunday to advance in first place.
La Albiceleste will now face the second-placed team from Group C, which will be one of Chile, Peru or Uruguay.
Is Argentine football in crisis?
Argentina were gifted the lead on the brink of half-time, when goalkeeper Leonel Moreira spilled midfielder Fernando Gago's volley and the 23-year-old Aguero finished from close range.
Aguero's second goal, and third of the tournament, arrived seven minutes into the second half, when the former Independiente striker latched onto a perfectly weighted pass from FIFA Ballon d'Or winner Lionel Messi to sidefoot the ball beyond Moreira.
Di Maria completed the scoring just past the hour mark, firing home from 10 yards after another perfect pass from Barcelona's Messi.
River Plate's fate a warning to Latin American giants
Batista made four changes to his starting line-up after two draws in Argentina's opening two matches against Bolivia and Colombia.
The most high-profile name to be dropped was Manchester City striker Carlos Tevez, with the 48-year-old coach preferring to field a front three of Aguero, Di Maria and Gonzalo Higuain anchored by Messi.
"We needed a game like this to restore the confidence of the players," Batista told the tournament's official web site.
The 1986 World Cup winner praised the impact of Messi, who showed glimpses of the dazzling form he displayed for European champions Barca last season.
"Messi was brilliant and I was pleased by the application of the team, this is the game we want.
"We needed to have security as a team and keep the ball. Lionel knows how to overcome these situations and he showed today."
Messi, 24, thanked the fans in the Estadio Mario Alberto Kempes for their support.
"I want to thank the fans, we missed this affection. From now another Cup begins, more than anyone, we want the best for Argentina."
Tuesday's match in the competition will pit Chile against Peru in Mendoza, with both teams level on four points.
