Second seed Maria Sharapova continued her quest for a career grand slam with a convincing win at the French Open on Friday, while world No. 3 Agnieszka Radwanska and former champion Ana Ivanovic crashed out of the Paris tournament.
Sharapova has tasted success at three of tennis' four grand slams, but she has been no further than the semifinals at Roland Garros -- losing at that stage last year and in 2007.
However, the Russian looked in fine form as she brushed aside Japan's world No. 88 Ayumi Morita 6-1 6-1 in exactly one hour to set up a third-round tie with Chinese 25th seed Peng Shuai.
The match was originally scheduled to take place on Thursday, but it was delayed by Paul-Henri Mathieu's marathon win against John Isner in the men's tournament.
"I had never faced my opponent before, and when she has time she really goes for her shots, so I wanted to get her on the move," the 25-year-old Sharapova said on the WTA Tour's website.
"I played well, aggressive, and moved in when I had to. With every round I'm going to be playing tougher opponents, and that's when you really want to raise your level. That's what I'll try to do in the next round."
Sharapova's compatriot Svetlana Kuznetsova produced the day's biggest shock by registering a comfortable 6-1 6-2 third-round win against Radwanska, who eliminated former world No. 1 Venus Williams on Wednesday.
"I haven't played that well in a long time," said the 2009 French Open champion. "I was in control of my things.
"When I feel in control of my moves and am not depending so much on my opponent, it brings me the best feelings. That's why I really enjoy tennis, that's why I love tennis. And I haven't had this feeling for quite some time."
The world No. 28's reward is a last-16 encounter with Italy's Sara Errani, who also upset the odds to progress as she knocked out Ivanovic.
The 21st seed came from one set down to beat the Serbian 1-6 7-5 6-3. Ivanovic has not been past the fourth round of the clay-court event since winning the title four years ago.
"I was really pleased the way I started," said Ivanovic, who followed fellow former world No. 1s Serena and Venus Williams in exiting the tournament. "I was really aggressive and created a lot of opportunities for myself.
"Then in the second and third sets she started raising her level a lot and putting a lot more on the ball. I also started getting a bit flatfooted and hitting more unforced errors as the match went on."
Australian sixth seed Samantha Stosur, the beaten finalist in 2010, breezed past Russian No. 27 Nadia Petrova 6-3 6-3. The 2011 U.S. Open winner set up a match with American youngster Sloane Stephens.
Stephens' 6-3 6-2 win against France's Mathilde Johansson meant the 70th-ranked 19-year-old reached the fourth round of a grand slam for the first time in her career.
