Former Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, who is still believed to be at his residence in Sharm el-Sheikh, will be brought to Cairo next week for questioning in his corruption case, said Mustafa Bakri, a former member of parliament.
Bakri, who brought the case against Mubarak and other officials, was told of the development by the Prosecutor General's office on Thursday.
Attorney General Abdel Maguid Mahmoud issued an order freezing assets of Mubarak and his family on Monday and prohibited them from leaving the country.
Meanwhile, Egyptian Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik has submitted his resignation and the Egyptian military has appointed former transport minister Essam Sharaf to the post, the military's Facebook page said Thursday.
Bakri, a member of Egypt's parliament who lost his seat after filing corruption cases against various officials, provided documents indicating Mubarak's family has secret bank accounts totaling more than 200 million Egyptian pounds ($147 million), according to EgyNews.
"I submitted the corruption documents on Sunday night and on Monday morning I was called in by the public prosecutor for investigation, and he asked me to rush to his office." Bakri told CNN.
"The attorney general, himself, went over the documents in my possession and then issued his orders to bar Mubarak and his family from travelling and to impound their assets."
Mahmoud ordered the freeze for property owned by Mubarak, his wife Suzanne, his two sons Alaa and Gamal Mubarak, and their wives and children, EgyNews reported. The seizures include "movable properties, real estate, stocks, bonds and various financial assets."
It wasn't immediately clear how the order differed from a similar one reported last week.
Mubarak, through his attorneys and in official filings, has described reports of immense wealth as "fabrications and baseless rumors."
But Bakri said the documents he provided to Mahmoud "are the first solid and concrete evidence on the fortune collected illegally by Mubarak and his family."
Mubarak resigned February 11 after 18 days of protest against his rule.
CNN's Nima Elbagir contributed to this report.
