Fantasia Barrino left the Charlotte, North Carolina, hospital Wednesday where she was admitted Monday after overdosing on "aspirin and a sleep aid," her manager said.
"She has been lifted up by the outpouring of love and support from her fans," Brian Dickens said in a written statement Wednesday evening.
Barrino's overdose came the same day she read a court complaint from a woman who alleged that the singer carried on a year-long affair with her husband, Dickens said.
Audio of the 911 call made Monday evening from Barrino's home was released by police Wednesday.
"An individual took a bottle of aspirin, and she's slowly losing consciousness," the caller said. A police report released Tuesday identified the caller as Dickens.
The incident capped off a day for Barrino that included a barrage of media reports about a child custody case filed last week. Paula Cook charged that Barrino and her husband, Antwaun Cook, became romantically involved last August.
"Fantasia is heartbroken and is sorry for any pain she may have caused," Dickens said in a written statement Tuesday. "Yesterday, she was totally overwhelmed by the lawsuit and the media attention."
The statement acknowledged the affair, saying "Fantasia fell in love with Mr. Cook and believed that he loved her."
The former "American Idol" winner's affair was based on lies he told her, Dickens said.
"Fantasia believed Mr. Cook when he told her he was not happy in his marriage and his heart was not in it," Dickens said. "She believed him when he told her he and Mrs. Cook separated in the late summer of 2009. She believed Mr. Cook when he told her he lived elsewhere."
Cook even took her to a residence where he claimed he lived apart from his wife, Dickens said.
Photos of Barrino and Cook were published online in recent months, prompting questions about their relationship.
"Fantasia gave inconsistent interviews about the status of her relationship with Mr. Cook because sometimes they were on and sometimes they were off," Dickens said. "When they were on, they spent most of their time together when she was not traveling with work."
She read Paula Cook's child custody complaint for the first time Monday, Dickens said.
"She knows some of the allegations in Mrs. Cook's complaint are totally false," he said. "There are others she strongly doubts. There is plenty she does not know."
The petition, which said the couple separated in June, described a phone conversation in July in which Barrino allegedly told the wife: "He don't want you. ... Maybe the next time that you get a husband, you'll know how to keep him. ... That's why he is here with me."
While Barrino is not directly involved in the current legal case, North Carolina is one of only a few states that allow a spouse to sue a third party who interferes with a marriage for alienation of affection.
Barrino's raw talent as a songstress, combined with her hard-luck story as a teenage mother, won her many fans, starting with her winning "American Idol's" third season.
Her six-year-long entertainment career has been pockmarked with adversity, including being sued by her own father and well-publicized financial troubles.
The High Point, North Carolina, native's newest album, which has received favorable reviews, will be released on August 24, while the second season of her reality show debuts next month.
