(CNN)Joe and Anthony Russo, who directed "Captain America: The Winter Soldier" and will return for "Captain America: Civil War," are cementing themselves as Marvel's main movie executors.
The brothers will direct both parts of the studio's "Avengers: Infinity War," taking over the billion-dollar franchise from Joss Whedon, who directed the first two Avengers films. (The second one, "Avengers: Age of Ultron," opens May 1.) They'll film "Infinity War" in one long shoot beginning sometime in 2016, sources tell The Hollywood Reporter.
Marvel's 'Secret Wars:' What newcomers need to know
No writers are attached, but the brothers will likely reunite with "Winter Soldier's" Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely. They collaborated on "Civil War," which the Russos will begin shooting next month.
The new deal raises the question of the status of the Russos' deal with Sony. The duo signed a three-year first-look deal with the Culver City-based studio in March. Working on an Avengers movie is an all-consuming endeavor, so how active they will be within that deal remains to be seen.
How Superman, Wonder Woman and Batman have changed their looks through the years
"Civil War," for which the brothers are in preproduction and which is considered to be a mini-Avengers movie because of the large cast of heroes, has a May 6, 2016, release date. "Infinity War - Part 1" and "Infinity War - Part 2" are slated to be released May 4, 2018, and May 3, 2019, respectively.
The "Infinity" get is a massive feather in the duo's caps and marks the latest in an incredible career trajectory. The Russos began in television comedy, directing episodes of "Arrested Development" in the early to mid-2000s, and continued to work in the field in 2012 with "Happy Endings" and "Up All Night." It was their work on some of the geeky episodes of "Community," however, that led to "Winter Soldier," a movie that grossed $717.7 million worldwide.
With Marvel deal, Sony opts to lease rather than sell Spider-Man
Badass Digest first reported that the deal was closing.
The Russos are represented by WME and Jackoway Tyerman.
©2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
