A 19-year-old Detroit woman who was shot and killed on the front porch of a Michigan home had a blood alcohol level nearly three times the legal limit for drivers in the state, according to a toxicology report released Thursday.
Wayne County Prosecutor Kym Worthy, meanwhile, was scheduled to make an announcement Friday about a review of possible charges against the homeowner who fired the fatal shotgun blast.
The report from the Wayne County Medical Examiner's Office said Renisha McBride's alcohol level was 0.218%. The legal limit for drivers in Michigan is 0.08%.
The report said McBride also had marijuana in her system when she was shot in the face by a homeowner after approaching his house after a car accident.
Police have said that the unidentified homeowner's shotgun accidentally discharged. Lawyers for McBride's family claim she was simply looking for help after the accident, while those representing the homeowner said the 54-year-old man's actions were justified.
Gerald Thurswell, an attorney representing McBride's family, said the autopsy findings were irrelevant.
"I don't think the fact that she was intoxicated changes anything," he said. "Her being intoxicated on the toxicology report would make her less of a threat than more of a threat. The bottom line is, he should've called 911 when he heard a disturbance, and we know for a fact that the police would've been there in two minutes. Instead, he did the reverse. He took his shotgun, went on the porch, and blew her head off and then called 911."
Mark Carpenter, a lawyer for the homeowner, said he would not comment on the toxicology report until after the prosecutor's announcement Friday.
An autopsy report said McBride was not shot at close range. As reported in The Detroit News this week, McBride's autopsy left many questions unanswered.
The autopsy confirmed that McBride had been shot in the face but revealed little about how the early morning incident unfolded on November 2.
"There was an entrance shotgun wound to the face, with no evidence of close range discharge of a firearm noted on the skin surrounding this wound," said the autopsy report, which ruled her death a homicide.
Detroit woman's autopsy leaves questions
McBride was in a car accident earlier that morning, but police said hours passed between the time of the wreck and her death.
A woman told police that she helped McBride after the car crash, but that McBride said she wanted to go home and walked away from the scene, the Detroit News reported.
The wreck happened about 1:30 a.m.; the shooting at 3:40 a.m.
The homeowner said that he was awakened before dawn and believed someone was trying to break into his home.
Charlotte police kill ex-FAMU player who may have been running to them for help
