The first full day of the new Bundesliga season kicked-off Saturday with some promising wins for teams that struggled in last year's campaign.
Stuttgart opened their account with a 3-0 win over Schalke at the Mercedes Benz Arena on Saturday.
Brazilian striker Cacau opened the scoring with a header in the 37th minute, before Austrian striker Martin Harnik doubled the lead 11 minutes into the second half.
Japanese striker Shinji Okazaki netted with a superb strike moments from the end to send last season's Champions League semi-finalists to a crushing opening-day defeat.
Hanover 96 also got off on the right foot beating Hoffenheim 2-1.
A free-kick from former German international Jan Schlaudraff gave last year's fourth-placed side the lead after 15 minutes.
But their advantage was short-lived as Hoffenheim hit back three minutes later when Bosnia and Herzegovina midfielder Sejad Salihovic converted from the penalty spot.
Hanover were awarded a penalty of their own 12 minutes later when Schlauddraff was brought down. Norwegian striker Mohammed Abdellaoue stepped up to score what proved to be the winner.
Champions Dortmund open Bundesliga season with win
A second-half brace from Swedish striker Markus Rosenberg sealed a 2-0 win for Werder Bremen over Kaiserslautern, while 2009 champions, Wolfsburg -- who finished last term in 15th place -- also bagged three points with victory at Cologne.
Two goals from former German striker Patrick Helmes and one from Marcel Schaefer (recently stripped of the captaincy by coach Felix Magath) sealed a comfortable 3-0 victory.
Newly-promoted Augsburg earned a 2-2 draw at home to Freiburg thanks to two second-half goals from striker Sascha Molders.
But last year's second division champions Hertha Berlin went down to a 1-0 defeat at home to Nuremberg in the late kick-off -- 22-year-old Czech striker Tomas Pekhart scoring the decisive goal ten minutes from time.
Bayern Munich open their league campaign on Sunday at home to Borussia Moenchengladbach while last year's runners-up Bayer Leverkusen travel to Mainz.
