(CNN Student News) -- February 21, 2014
As violence between protesters and police gets worse in Ukraine, we take an in-depth look at why the country is so divided. We also bring you a look at Korean reunions for which some people have waited a lifetime. Other topics covered this Friday include ways to address loneliness and an anniversary concerning John Glenn.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What is a PSA? In your opinion, what makes an effective PSA?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. Caracas is the capital of what South American nation?
2. What kind of depression is caused by a chemical imbalance in the brain brought on by shorter days and longer nights?
3. What Washington, D.C. monument was the backdrop for Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech?
4. What agency of the U.S. government tests the fuel economy of new cars?
5. What is the term for a presidential mandate that does not need to go through Congress?
6. What NBA team signed Kevin Grow to a two-day contract?
7. In what city, the capital of Thailand, have protesters been camped out for months, demanding that the prime minister step down?
8. In what city, the capital of Ukraine, have violent protests been taking place?
9. Who was the first American to travel into orbit?
10. From what world leader did high school football kicker Isaac Lufkin recently receive a letter of praise?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
