Spinner Saeed Ajmal tore through England's batting line up as Pakistan took control of the first Test in Dubai, in the first clash between the two countries since the spot-fixing scandal of 2010.
Ajamal took 7-55 as England were dismissed for just 192, having won the toss and elected to bat. By the close of play Pakistan had reached 42-0, trailing their opponents by just 150 runs.
The last time the pair came face to face was two years ago in England, during a controversial series that eventually saw the prosecution of three Pakistan players for their part in a spot-fixing betting scam.
Former captain Salman Butt and fast bowlers Mohammad Amir and Mohammad Asif were found guilty of deliberately bowling no-balls in a Test match at London's Lord's stadium and all three are currently serving custodial sentences.
Both sides insisted in the lead up to their series, played in the United Arab Emirates due to the ongoing ban on Pakistan playing matches in their home country, that they were keen to move on from the incidents.
And it was Pakistan who dominated proceedings in Dubai as Ajmal claimed a seven-wicket haul for the first time in his career, accounting for captain Andrew Strauss, Kevin Pietersen and Ian Bell in the space of ten deliveries.
Only wicketkeeper Matt Prior looked comfortable at the crease as he compiled a diligent 70 not out, with Eoin Morgan contributing 24 and Graeme Swann 34.
Ajmal then took three of the final four wickets as England were bowled out in just 73 overs. At the close Pakistan openers Mohammad Hafeez and Taufeeq Umar were unbeaten, compiling 42 runs between them.
"It's the best performance of my life," Ajmal was quoted as saying on the England and Wales Cricket Board's website. "I bowled wicket to wicket, and there were a few bad shots as well.
"I am very happy because today is the best bowling of my career. I just tried to bowl line and length, bowl at middle stump and bowl a little bit low.
"I have my best bowling against England, my best batting against England so I'm happy. They are the number one team and I put in a good performance."
