(CNN)  -- French football has been hit a 'race quota' row with the country's sports minister demanding clarification from the national federation of their policy.
Reports allege that senior officials have secretly approved limiting the number of black and Arab trainees to 30 per cent from the age of 12-13 and that national team coach Laurent Blanc had approved the quota.
Both the federation and Blanc issued denials Friday but minister Chantal Jouanno is seeking guarantees that there are genuine equal opportunities.
"Discrimination has no place in sport, whether it's in the stands or in the training academies," Ms Jouanno said.
"I take note of the French football federation's denial about the existence of such a policy and I invite it to very quickly shed light on the allegations in the article," she added in a statement released to CNN.
The French investigative website Mediapart broke the story about a supposed secret quota Thursday.
Quoting "scandalized" sources within the French Football Federation (FFF), it said the alleged directive from its National Technical Direction (DTN) had already been sent out to training academies.
It further alleged that senior FFF members, including Blanc, had knowledge of the quota.
"A genuine segregation applied to football," it said.
But Philippe Tournon, media officer for the French national team, said Laurent Blanc was outraged by the allegation.
"[He] categorically denies that he could have supported selections based on ethnicity or skin color," Mr Tournon said.
"It goes against his philosophy."
FFF president Fernand Duchaussoy also denied the reports Friday.
"I heard about this on Thursday with a great deal of surprise, I was taken aback. I thought it was a joke in bad taste. These are terrible accusations," he told AFP.
Race became a controversial issue again in French football after the shambolic performance of the national team in last year's World Cup, where the players briefly went on strike.
Accusations were made that the team, which had six black players, had mutinied in South Africa because of race.
It contrasted with the euphoria around the 1998 World Cup winning-side when the nation adored its multi-ethnic team of "Blacks, Blancs, Beurs" - blacks, whites and Arabs.
