Britain's Andy Murray gained revenge for his Wimbledon singles defeat to Roger Federer by demolishing the world No. 1 to claim Olympic gold for Team GB.
The Scot brushed aside the 16-time Grand Slam winner from Switzerland in straight sets, winning 6-2 6-1 6-4, in front of a rapturous crowd on Centre Court.
It was the first time ever the 25-year-old had beaten Federer in a best of five set match and marked his first major tennis title, albeit outside the four major championships.
Murray has a chance to claim another gold medal in the mixed doubles final when he and Laura Robson take on Belarusians Victoria Azarenka and Max Mirnyi barely 45 minutes after his victory in the singles.
Follow all the action at the Olympics with our London 2012 live blog
But he seized his opportunity to avenge his painful defeat at the same venue less than a month ago with some blistering ground stokes to take Britain's first Olympic singles gold since Josiah Ritchie in 1908.
Argentina's Juan Martin Del Potro took the silver medal, beating Novak Djokovic 7-5 6-4, after he was defeated by Federer in the semifinal.
An emotional Murray clambered into the stands to celebrate with his family and coaching team after his emphatic victory, and later told the host broadcaster it was one of the biggest wins of his life.
"I have had a lot of tough losses in my career and this is the best way to come back from the Wimbledon final," he said. "This week has been incredible for me, the support has been amazing at all of the Olympic events.
"I watched the athletics last night and the way Mo Farah won gave me a boost coming into today.
"I didn't expect that [being crowned Olympic champion] at the start of the week. I thought I'd go deep into the tournament but I felt so fresh today. It's amazing."
After an even start Murray took complete control of the match in the first set and never looked back. Federer, who admitted to being drained after his marathon semifinal victory over Del Potro, couldn't keep pace with his opponent.
Murray broke twice in the opening set to take it 6-2 and stepped up a gear in the second as he surrendered just one game.
The final set was a more even affair, but Murray secured a decisive break in the fifth game and held his nerve to close out the match with an ace.
Federer said: "He was better, much better than I was today but I'm happy with silver. I had a very emotional tournament.
"Maybe I was emotionally drained but, nevertheless, I didn't think I played too badly, but things didn't go my way. It's unfortunate, but still a great day for me.
"Andy looked like he was never doubting himself and he was able to come through this time around. He's had a wonderful career already and I'm happy for him."
