Manchester City's Carlos Tevez will not be returning to Corinthians after the Brazilian club pulled out of negotiations to sign the Argentina striker on Wednesday.
Corinthians had wanted to bring the 27-year-old back to the team he represented between 2004-06, but they have now said it would be impossible to conclude the deal before the Brazilian transfer window shuts on 20 July.
City manager Roberto Mancini said on Monday the English FA Cup winners had accepted a bid from the Sao Paulo outfit for Tevez, but it seems Corinthians were unable to close the deal.
"The board of Corinthians hereby officially announce the impossibility of hiring the Argentine striker Carlos Tevez," read a statement on the club's official web site.
Copa America flops: Who is to blame?
"While acknowledging the efforts of Manchester City and all involved in the negotiation, more time is needed for the transfer to be achieved, given that the window to sign players from abroad closes on Wednesday, 20 July."
Despite being unable to conclude a deal for the forward, the team based at the Pacaembu Stadium did not rule out a future bid for Tevez.
"We are aware our fans wanted Tevez to join our club again and we hope we can have the player with us in the future," the statement added.
Tevez has been linked with a move away from the Etihad Stadium since handing in a transfer request in December 2010.
City accept Corinthians offer for Carlos Tevez
The former West Ham United striker arrived in England in 2006 and moved to City from their local rivals Manchester United in 2009.
Tevez has scored 43 goals in 63 appearances for City and was a key member of the team that finished third in the English Premier League last season, a position which meant qualification to the European Champions League for the first time in their history.
Meanwhile, one player has definitely left City after the club confirmed that Brazilian striker Jo has returned to his native country, signing a permanent deal with Internacional.
The 24-year-old was briefly City's record signing when he joined from CSKA Moscow in 2008 for a fee of around $30 million.
However, he only scored six goals in 41 matches and has now left the club after loan spells at Everton and Galatasaray.
In other transfer news, Galatasaray have confirmed the signing of Lazio goalkeeper Fernando Muslera.
The Uruguay number one, currently with Oscar Tabarez's squad in Argentina preparing for Sunday's Copa America final, has signed a five-year deal with Istanbul-based team.
The 25-year-old joined Lazio from Montevideo Wanderers in 2007 and has represented Uruguay on 25 occasions.
Meanwhile, Brazilian midfielder Denilson has also returned to his homeland after Arsenal agreed to allow the 23-year-old to join former club Sao Paulo on a season-long loan deal.
Denilson has played 96 times for Arsenal since making his debut in 2006, scoring seven goals.
Another Brazilian on the move is Danilo, who has agreed a switch from Santos to Europa League winners Porto.
The young full-back becomes new Porto coach Vitor Pereira's sixth signing of the current transfer window.
