(CNN Student News) -- April 17, 2014
Covered this Thursday: A ferry with hundreds aboard capsizes off the coast of South Korea, the fossils of a Tyrannosaurus rex arrive at the Smithsonian, and Major League Baseball remembers its first African-American player. We also look at an NCAA decision concerning unlimited food for many college athletes.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What different events might you include in a documentary on the history of baseball in the U.S.? Why would you choose these events?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)
2. Smithsonian Institution
3. Jackie Robinson
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What happened to a ferry headed for a resort island yesterday in South Korea? How many passengers were on board? What were the passengers initially told not to do? What happened within two hours?
2. Why is a video out of Yemen especially concerning to the Central Intelligence Agency and the Pentagon? What is al Qaeda? What is its leader encouraging the group's members to do? How have U.S. officials responded to the video?
3. What fossilized discovery did a rancher make in Montana in 1988? Where was this discovery recently sent? How did it travel there? Where will it eventually be on display? How old are these bones believed to be?
4. Who was Jackie Robinson? What number did he wear on his jersey? Why did Major League Baseball players wear his number on Tuesday? What else has Major League Baseball done to honor Robinson?
5. What proposal did the NCAA approve this week regarding college athletes and meals? Under this proposal, who would get unlimited meals and snacks? What brought this issue to public attention? Who must still approve the new meal proposal?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you think U.S. officials do to monitor terrorist activities? What skills and knowledge do you think would be valuable in a career centered on anti-terrorism? If you were interested in a career in this field, what courses would you want to take? Why?
2. What do you think were some of the personal sacrifices that Jackie Robinson had to make in order to play in the Major Leagues in 1947? What impact do you think his achievement has had on the lives of others in sports and in other fields? What do you think others can learn from his story?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
