(CNN Student News) -- September 27, 2013
As CNN Student News wraps up the week, we report on a significant meeting between U.S. and Iranian officials, we explain a proposed increase in stamp prices, and we discuss the U.S. debt ceiling. We also hear some financial advice for students from students. Plus, find out why a high school football coach threw all of his players off the team to teach them a life lesson.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What's the best way to present someone's perspective in a news story: through an interview, a written statement, or through a reporter's paraphrasing? What are the benefits and drawbacks of each method?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What organization is responsible for creating and enforcing rules for U.S. college athletics?
2. Who is the chancellor of Germany?
3. In what African capital did terrorists launch an attack on a shopping mall on September 21?
4. By what date must U.S. politicians agree on a funding deal to avoid a possible government shutdown?
5. What Asian country was struck by a 7.7 magnitude earthquake on Tuesday?
6. What main body of the United Nations began its annual session this week?
7. What is the current price of a U.S. first-class postage stamp?
8. Hassan Rouhani is the president of what Middle Eastern nation?
9. On Tuesday, what U.S. senator began a 21-hour speech on the Senate floor?
10. "Starbuck," for whom a coffee company was named, is a character in what Herman Melville novel?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
New York City; Utah
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
