Jenson Button fears the weather could have a huge impact on the Malaysian Grand Prix as his McLaren team try to haul back Red Bull's lightning start to the season.
Button emerged victorious at the Sepang circuit in 2009 when the race had to be cut short due to torrential rain, and he went on to clinch the drivers' championship at the end of that campaign.
The British McLaren driver finished sixth in the season-opener in Melbourne two weeks ago, as reigning world champion Sebastian Vettel drove from pole to flag to secure an impressive victory for Red Bull.
And Button thinks whoever handles the inclement weather best in Asia will stand a good chance of claiming the checkered flag.
He told Formula One's official website: "It is a fun place to race and the weather can really play a big part here, especially with the four o'clock start, it is pretty much on the dot when it starts raining.
"It makes it tricky for every team in the pit-lane and every driver to really understand the conditions and to make the right call."
Only 33 laps were possible when Button won in 2009 as thunderstorms and failing light made racing too dangerous.
Drivers also have to contend with the humidity in Malaysia and Button has been training in Hawaii for the past week to prepare for the tough conditions.
He told British newspaper The Daily Telegraph: "With the heat and humidity, and with it being a very tough circuit on tires, then we are going to see a very different race to the last one in Melbourne.
"Then you chuck the weather into it and it's going to be absolute madness. It will still be good, and we're all looking forward to it because you never really know what's going to happen."
Button might well have improved on his sixth place in Melbourne but for a tussle with Ferrari's Felipe Massa, which resulted in a drive through penalty after he overtook the Brazilian illegally.
But the 31-year-old thinks overtaking will be far easier in Malaysia, with the help of the Drag Reductions System (which helps cars boost speed in passing situations).
He said: "It is one of those circuits where you can really have a good tussle as corners flow into each other. I think with the DRS it is going to make overtaking a lot easier than it was in Melbourne."
