A day after a video posted online showed him describing "Two and a Half Men" as "filth" and advising viewers to stop watching the sitcom, actor Angus T. Jones apologized to the show's cast and crew Tuesday.
"I apologize if my remarks reflect me showing indifference to and disrespect of my colleagues and a lack of appreciation of the extraordinary opportunity of which I have been blessed," Jones said in a statement released by his publicist. "I never intended that."
The 19-year-old actor -- who plays Jake Harper, the CBS sitcom's "Half" man -- didn't detail what motivated him to make comments.
"I have been the subject of much discussion, speculation and commentary over the past 24 hours. While I cannot address everything that has been said or right every misstatement or misunderstanding, there is one thing I want to make clear," he wrote.
"Without qualification, I am grateful to and have the highest regard and respect for all of the wonderful people on Two and Half Men with whom I have worked and over the past ten years who have become an extension of my family."
It's unclear how Jones' comments could affect the show in the long run, but sources close to production told CNN that Jones will not appear in either of the two remaining episodes that the CBS sitcom will shoot before going on holiday break. The sources said both of the episodes were written well in advance of Jones' video confession, which whipped around the Web on Monday.
In the video, the actor, who's been on the show since 2003, repeatedly asks viewers not to watch the sitcom.
'Two and a Half Men' actor's criticism of show shines light on Seventh-day Adventists
"I'm on 'Two and a Half Men,' and I don't want to be on it," Jones said. "You cannot be a true God-fearing person and be on a television show like that. I know I can't. I'm not OK with what I'm learning, what the Bible says, and being on that television show. You go all or nothing."
According to a statement from the Seventh-day Adventist Church, Jones joined a church in the San Fernando Valley area in June, making him one of the 1.1 million North American members of the Protestant organization.
However, the church said it's not affiliated with the video clip that's gone viral online and says the online show's host is not a pastor of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.
Church spokesman George Johnson said the church did not have additional information about Johnson's comments but said the church was happy Jones has "found a place in which he feels comfortable to worship and grow his faith."
Jones' comments come nearly two years after Charlie Sheen was fired from the hit sitcom after a two-week public meltdown that included attacks on the show's producer.
On Tuesday, Sheen described Jones' comments as a meltdown.
"It is radically clear to me that the show (2 1/2 Men) is cursed," Sheen said in a statement released by his publicist.
More celebrity news on CNN.com's Marquee Blog
