Brad Pitt clearly has a great deal going on.
Between being dad to six children, a fiancé, an activist and a perfume pitchman, he still manages to squeeze in some time acting. The movie star recently sat down with "Showbiz Tonight's" A.J. Hammer to talk about his latest project, the mob film "Killing Them Softly," and that nagging question of when he plans to marry partner Angelina Jolie.
A.J. Hammer: Brad, we've got a mob movie and I believe the first one we've seen that has political campaign speeches throughout it.
Brad Pitt: I like to mix it up.
Hammer: Was this -- for you -- as much about making a mob movie as it was about sending a political message?
Pitt: This is a good friend of mine, the writer and director, Andrew Dominik, he's from Australia, and his view of America was very interesting to me. His feeling in some way oppressed and that we get caught up in trying to sell the idea that the image is more important than the actual substance. This is what he was trying to tell with this story. He finds this book about a crime syndicate, and he makes these comparisons to -- not politics, per se, or not just politics, but ... the financial crisis itself, and it was a good subject matter.
Hammer: I know, and timely! The idea of the mob dealing with corporate concerns or falling off a fiscal cliff. How timely is that coming off this political season?
Pitt: Absolutely! And how much are we really dealing with -- the issue's always at the image of the issue, and oftentimes, a scapegoat is found, but it's not really solved. This is what our film is about. It's about get the games going again, get the perception that the machine's running again so everyone can feel confident, have market confidence and get on with the game.
Hammer: I want to ask you specifically ... about an issue that's been at the forefront for you and Angelina, and that is the issue of marriage equality. That is something that you guys have obviously done a phenomenal job moving forward and getting the message out about what should be done. You've talked about perception versus what happens in reality sometimes. When and why did that become so important to you guys?
Pitt: It's one of our last big issues of equality. What makes this nation great is our freedoms and the idea of equality, the true idea of equality -- and in that definition, there's a certain faction of our society that is not being included. And that time ... it's time! Yeah, it's time.
Hammer: You guys have once famously said you would hold off on getting married until everybody could get married. And I know now you're engaged. You said you're doing it for the kids, which obviously everybody's excited about.
Pitt: And ourselves, but they prompted it.
Hammer: Are they pressuring you at all to set a date? Are they getting on you about this?
Pitt: No, not necessarily.
Hammer: Do you think it's something you'll make public? Because obviously there's a huge interest, demand, people want to feel like they're a part when you guys actually get married.
Pitt: We don't know. We haven't gotten that far yet.
Hammer: You cannot turn on the TV without seeing the Chanel ad. Obviously, Brad, you know that got such a huge reaction. Did you get a kick out of the reaction?
Pitt: I say fair play!
Hammer: Absolutely. I say they got their money's worth. I mean, the number of times it got played from people talking about it.
Pitt: You know, I'm not a part of that side of the marketing, but fair play!
Hammer: Last thing: I want to flash back. We're going to have a little fun. I just want you to take a quick look at this guy here. (Pitt watched clip of himself from "Thelma and Louise.")
Pitt: Was that? Really? I don't even recognize that guy! Was this -- what year?
Hammer: You had just gotten out to California maybe six months prior. What advice would this guy in the chair across from me give that guy there?
Pitt: I think that guy did all right. I think he figured it out quite fine. I don't think I need to tell him much.
