NASA has never flown a manned space shuttle mission.
There was no Mars rover.
People can make their own currency.
From February 2009 through September 2010, someone using the name "Erad3" made these and a series of other assertions -- unusual at best, disturbed at worst -- on the website abovetopsecret.com.
Erad3, according to site co-owner Mark Allin, was almost certainly Jared Lee Loughner, the 22-year-old man accused of killing six people and injuring 14 others last weekend, including U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, D-Arizona.
The site, Allin said, focuses on "alternative news" and information "not covered by the mainstream media." Allin noted that all 130 messages from Erad3 were posted from Loughner's hometown of Tucson, and many of them bear a striking resemblance to postings made by Loughner on the popular social media site YouTube.
Investigators are examining the postings on Allin's site, according to a law enforcement source.
The messages from Erad3 -- riddled with grammatical errors -- often became the object of ridicule, scorn or sympathy from other contributors.
"The ranting about proof, (your) inability to make a coherent sentence gives you away red handed," one person wrote. "It won't be long (until) you have been banned once again!"
"You sound absolutely bonkers," added another.
"I think you're frankly schizophrenic," said a third. "That's not an amateur opinion and not intended as an uninformed or insulting. ... You clearly make no sense and are unable to communicate. I really do care. Seek help before you hurt yourself or others or start taking your medications again, please."
Erad3 replied with a series of unrelated arguments before concluding with a brief expression of thanks for the writer's concern.
None of Erad3's postings mentions Giffords or a desire for violence, unlike language used in documents found in Loughner's residence. They do, however, appear to reflect a strong urge to break free of any constraints -- real or imagined -- imposed by government officials.
"Every human who's mentally capable is always able to be treasurer of their new currency," he wrote at one point. "If the treasury creates one new currency then why couldn't they create an infinite amount? Wouldn't (it) be beautiful to see your face on the new coins?"
The investigation into the postings is part of a pledge from law enforcement authorities to pursue every lead relating to Saturday's shooting. President Barack Obama is scheduled to address mourners at a memorial service in Tucson on Wednesday night.
CNN's John King, Mia Aquino, and Alan Silverleib contributed to this report.
