In a tucked-away corner of Zanzibar's historic Stone Town lies a little shop of curiosities.
Colorful bags, necklaces and hats hang on the racks, and beautiful African prints line the walls. In the back room, a low hum of sewing machines is a sign of busy artisans at work.
Welcome to Aromas of Zanzibar, a clothing and accessories store that's different to others on the island.
Founded by the 29-year-old entrepreneur Rizwan Janmohamed, every single thing the shop -- from guitar cases to can holders -- is made on site by local craftsmen, using only locally sourced materials.
"Since my childhood, my dream has been to own my own business," says Janmohamed, "so I thought to myself, what is missing in Stone Town? At the time, everything was coming from China, India, Thailand, so I decided to make something which is produced here. That's my concept," he adds.
Janmohamed left his job as an assistant manager of a local hotel and used a bank loan, with added help from family and friends, to set up his shop.
Read more: Teen's gardening invention blooms into planting revolution
Thousands of tourists come to Stone Town each year and visit its many knickknack stores, but Janmohamed thought he would stand out by providing a piece of authentic Zanzibar for them to bring home.
A melting pot of cultures
He started with colorful beaded necklaces and then moved on to spices and aromatic cardamom tea. Today, his most popular items are small wallets, pouches and cosmetics cases made out of vibrant African prints known as Kitenge.
However, beginnings were tough, and Janmohamed found it difficult to market his products: "When I started the business a few years back, you can say it was a nightmare. It was really a challenge. Because you don't know what to produce first and you don't know what's expected tomorrow," he says.
At the moment, his shop is breaking even, but the businessman hopes to start making a profit within two years, and says his shop is frequented not just by tourists but local people as well.
Janmohamed attributes his success to Zanzibar's unique handicrafts, which display a fusion of Swahili and Arabian culture, but stresses that creating a welcoming environment is just as important.
"It's not just about selling your product. It's about maintaining your service, it's about how you talk to your customer and maintain that relationship as well," he says.
His products may be local, but Janmohamed's ambitions run significantly further: "I want to become one of the largest companies on the African continent for production of fabric accessories and clothing," he says.
Read more: Teen's gardening invention blooms into planting revolution
Read more: Think there aren't enough hours in the day? Meet this maverick slum dweller
Read more: 'Nigerian iTunes' dances to the mobile phone beat
