Months after her father's prolonged campaign against President Obama's national security policies, Liz Cheney is spearheading a new organization aimed at organizing conservative opposition to the new administration's foreign policy approach.
Liz Cheney formed Keep America Safe with William Kristol and Debra Burlingame.
The new group, Keep America Safe, says its aim is to provide a cogent and organized rebuttal to a series of recent moves that expressly divert from the more muscular policies of the Bush administration. The group plans to tackle hot-button issues like the way forward in Iraq and Afghanistan, defense spending, CIA interrogation techniques, and the planned closing of the Guantanamo Bay detention facility.
"We have watched with concern and dismay as the Obama administration has cut defense spending, wavered on the war in Afghanistan, and launched investigations into Americans serving on the front lines of the war on terror, while at the same time expanding legal protections for the terrorists that plot to attack this country," Cheney, along with the group's two other founders, wrote on its Web site. "These policies, along with President Obama's abandonment of America's allies and attempts to appease our adversaries are weakening the nation."
Weekly Standard Editor William Kristol and Debra Burlingame, the sister of the pilot of American Airlines Flight 77 -- the flight that crashed into the Pentagon on 9/11 -- are also heading up the new effort.
The new group says its goal is to focus media attention on continuing and emerging national security threats, and marshal grassroots opposition to the president's policies.
"Too often, significant events and thoughtful analysis in the war on terror are glossed over or ignored on nightly national newscasts," the group writes. "Keep America Safe will highlight this information on our website and encourage dialogue between American citizens and their elected representatives in order to produce the legislative and executive action that will keep this country safe and strong. "
A spokesman for the Democratic National Committee responded forcefully to the creation of the new group, saying the Cheneys' foreign policy approach "was deemed a failure."
"Last fall, the American people overwhelmingly rejected a radical foreign policy authored by Dick Cheney that alienated our allies, emboldened our enemies, depleted our resources, distracted our focus and made the nation less secure," DNC Press Secretary Hari Sevugan said. "The Cheneys can continue to focus on securing their sullied legacy if they want to. But, the president will continue to focus on securing the country."
Incorporated as a non-profit 501(c) 4, the organization is not subject to contribution limits, and is not required to disclose a list of its contributors to the Federal Elections Commission. However, it cannot engage in efforts directly aimed at influencing the outcome of an election.
Kicking off a fund-raising drive Tuesday, Keep America Safe launched a one-minute, 30-second Web video that portrays Obama as a wavering politician whose ambitious foreign policy promises as a candidate have not matched his actions.
"Not enough time for a decision, but plenty of time for Letterman, golf, a beer summit, more golf, vacation, and a visit to Copenhagen," the video states.
Cheney has been no stranger to the media spotlight since the Bush administration left office nine months ago. Regularly appearing on a series of cable news shows, the eldest daughter of former vice president has criticized Obama on a host of moves, once concluding that he has "sid[ed] with the terrorists."
The former vice president has also been a vocal critic of Obama, declaring earlier this year that the president's decision to cease the CIA's practice of aggressive interrogation practices has left the country more vulnerable to a terrorist attack.
