An American from Alabama wanted for aiding Somalia-based terrorists was added to the FBI's "most wanted terrorists" list Wednesday.
Omar Shafik Hammami, 28, was indicted in Alabama five years ago for traveling to Somalia to assist al-Shabaab, which the U.S. has designated a foreign terrorist organization.
Hammani, a U.S. citizen, is believed to be in Somalia now and should be considered armed and dangerous, the FBI said.
The FBI also added Raddulan Sahiron, a Filipino wanted for his alleged involvement in the kidnapping of an American in the Philippines in 1993, to the "most wanted terrorists" list.
Sahiron allegedly worked with Al Harakat al Islamiyyah, also known as the Abu Sayyaf group, to kidnap an American from his home in the Philippines on November 14, 1993, the FBI said.
The hostage was taken to the terrorists' jungle camp on the southern Philippine island of Jolo until he was freed 23 days later, the agency said.
Sahiron became the overall leader of Abu Sayyaf in 2005 and is believed to be in the area of Patikul Jolo, Sulu, Philippines, the "most wanted" poster said.
The United States is offering a reward of up to $1 million for information leading to the arrest of Sahiron.
The FBI also added a name to its "Seeking Information -- Terrorism" list, which includes people sought in connection with designated terrorist organizations or possible terrorist activity against the United States.
The newest addition is Shaykh Aminullah, a 50-year-old believed to be in Pakistan.
"As of early 2008, Shaykh Aminullah was allegedly providing assistance, including funding and recruits, to the al Qaeda network," the FBI said. "He was reported to have provided funding and other resources to the Taliban, including explosive vests and other resources and facilitated the activities of anti-coalition militants operating in Afghanistan by raising money in support of terrorist activities."
There are now six people on the FBI's "Seeking Information -- Terrorism" list, which was established for individuals not under indictment in the United States.
"This list complements the FBI's 'Most Wanted Terrorists' list of individuals indicted in the United States for their alleged involvement in various terrorist attacks or planned attacks around the world against United States interests or persons," the FBI said.
CNN's Carol Cratty contributed to this report.
