(CNN)A few weeks shy of the world's annual days of horror for singles -- namely Valentine's Day and Lunar New Year, when concerned relatives and friends shamelessly judge your (lack of) relationship -- Australia-based low-cost airline Jetstar Airways is offering an escape and a chance to find love at the same time.
The airline has teamed with feng shui master, David Tong, to launch a campaign called Love is in the Zodiac Pair.
Travelers logging onto the website complete a simple form that asks for their relationship status and birthday.
A personalized feng shui report is generated indicating compatible zodiac signs, best inflight seats, travel destination and activities.
For those born in the year of horse, for example, the best match is someone born in the year of the goat. These people should sit in row nine, 19 or 29 and travel to Jakarta, says Jetstar's feng shui guide. (Travel destinations are based on travelers flying out of Singapore.)
Travelers can also gain insight into their crush's travel preferences using the system.
To accommodate the social and adventurous traits of females born in a year of the goat, for example, you should plan an exciting group adventure to a new place.
The most compatible blind date
Single fliers can also enter a contest to win a blind date overseas.
Together with Jetstar, feng shui master Tong will pick two lucky singles who have the best matching feng shui, as well as personality traits and descriptions of their ideal date overseas.
At the end of each day of the trip, the winners will be asked to decide whether to continue the date or go home. The trip can last for up to three days.
"Will hearts rejoice or break this Lunar New Year?" asks Jetstar in its contest announcement.
In the first seven hours after the campaign's launch, the site had already received more than 5,000 applications.
Most described themselves as adventurous, creative and generous.
The trip will be recorded and screened on Jetstar's Youtube channel on March 3.
Only participants who are single and available from February 13-15 can apply, according to the airline.
