The strong euro is a "major concern" for European businesses trying to export their goods, according to the chief executive of Spanish food group Ebro.
Read more: Text alerts: Cutting costs, and saving lives
Ebro is a global producer of rice, pasta and sauces with a large international footprint -- its home Spanish market accounts for just 7% of its turnover.
"The war between the different currencies is an alarming situation," said CEO Antonio Hern치ndez, "we are still in a weak recovery; we need to export goods outside."
"We cannot afford to have a higher euro, in fact it's quite the opposite," he added.
The company has offset sluggish demand in Europe by expanding into higher growth markets that include Morocco, Egypt and Thailand. This year it will venture into India.
Read more: Henkel: Reaping rewards of its revamp
Acquisitions of rice and pasta businesses have increased Ebro's market share but has also given it access to established distribution networks.
Most recently Ebro acquired a 25% stake in Riso Scotti for $23.6 million -- it's the leading risotto rice brand in Italy.
"We have a kind of matrix in which we try to grow," said Hern치ndez. "The first idea is go where we are not yet, and the second is to enlarge the activities that we do."
To that end Ebro is branching out from its main dried foods business to frozen foods, particularly popular in North America, and fresh foods which is growing fast in France.
Read more: Shipping giant looks to China to combat downturn
Targeting different markets with different products is important to boost sales and profits. Hern치ndez ensures managers are hired locally when they enter new territories to utilise their understanding of the market demands.
Back home in Spain labour market reforms are being implemented; businesses have more flexibility hiring temporary staff and salaries for new-hires can be lower, but they are having little impact on established Spanish businesses like Ebro.
"It could even be a problem for competition," said Hern치ndez, "a newcomer into the industry can now hire staff at lower levels."
Despite this, Ebro's sales increased in Spain in 2012, suggesting that the domestic appetite for branded food is finally returning.
