(CNN Student News ) -- June 4, 2014
On the 25th anniversary of a crackdown in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, CNN Student News explains why many people in China won't publicly discuss the event. We also look into news events from the Middle East and Europe, and we explore the potential pros and cons of a proposed hike in the federal minimum wage.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Describe some powerful photographs that have come to represent historic events.
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Tiananmen Square
2. minimum wage
3. immune system
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Who is the current president of Syria? What is the expected outcome of elections being held there? What does the Syrian government say about these elections? How has the U.S. responded? According to the video, what is the purpose of these elections?
2. What kind of government does China have? What happened in Tiananmen Square in Beijing, China on June 4, 1989? According to the report, why are some questions about June 4 left unanswered? Where did the democracy discussions start? What happens when the CNN reporter asks people there if June 4 means anything to them? How does one recent graduate answer that question? What does she think people in China prefer to focus on instead?
3. What country did President Obama visit yesterday? What did he promise that country's president? Why has he asked Congress for $1 billion? With whom has the U.S. been at odds regarding the crisis in Ukraine? Why have some been critical of the president's foreign policy? What does the president hope this trip will help to accomplish?
4. What is the current federal minimum wage? How much does President Obama want it to be? According to the Congressional Budget Office, what are some of the potential positive and negative effects of this kind of raise in the minimum wage? What U.S. city just set the highest minimum wage? How much is it? Why are some of the city's business leaders concerned about this?
5. According to Dr. Sanjay Gupta: How much of an impact can being lonely have on your health? How does loneliness register in the brain? How can the simple act of being social impact one's immune system? What can saying "hello" do for both the receiver and the giver of that greeting?
Discussion Questions:
1. How might government control over media impact the flow of information to citizens? How might citizens' rights be affected when their access to information is limited?
2. Who might favor raising the minimum wage? Why? Who might be opposed? Why? What potential impact might raising the minimum wage have on workers, businesses and consumers? Where do you stand on the issue of raising the minimum wage? State your rationale.
3. Do you think there is a mind/body connection when it comes to one's health? Explain. Do you think that other emotions like happiness might have an effect on physical health? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
