Manchester United captain Nemanja Vidic has announced that he will leave the club at the end of the season.
The 32-year-old Serbian has enjoyed eight hugely successful seasons at Old Trafford but now says he wants a fresh challenge away from the English Premier League.
"It's the last year of my contract and I have had eight wonderful years here. My time at this great club will always rank as the best years of my career," Vidic said in a statement released on Manchester United's official website.
"I never could have imagined winning 15 trophies and I will certainly never forget that fantastic night in Moscow, memories that will live with me and the fans forever.
"However, I have decided that I will move on at the end of this season. I want to challenge myself again and try to make the best of myself in the coming years."
In addition to the 2008 Champions League victory over Chelsea in the Russian capital, Vidic won five English Premier League titles, three League Cup winner's medals and one FIFA Club World Cup.
The former Serbian International has played over 200 games for United and forged a formidable defensive partnership with Rio Ferdinand following his transfer from Spartak Moscow in December 2005.
According to his agent Silvano Martina, Vidic has been the subject of interest from several Serie A clubs including Inter Milan and the defender confirmed that he is not looking for a contract at another English club.
"I'm not considering staying in England as the only club I ever wanted to play for here is Manchester United and I was lucky enough to be part of this club for so many years. I've got a few options to move on and I will choose the right one for me and for my family," Vidic said.
"I am now going to focus all my efforts on playing for Manchester United and do the best I can for the team until the end of the season. I hope this stops any further speculation about my future."
Read more: Monaco sign Dimitar Berbatov
Read more: Arsenal eclipses Man Utd in China
