Perhaps right now in Morgantown, West Virginia, they are raising a glass, or rather a mug, to celebrate their No. 1 ranking from the Princeton Review.
Not as the best university for academics, but for being named the best party school in the United States.
The 22,000-plus students there like to let some steam off every now and now, according to the survey, which asked questions of about 325 people on 377 college campuses.
All the schools on the top 20 list have more than 15,000 students, save for DePauw, which came in at No. 12, and No. 19 University of Maine.
"The schools on this list are mostly large, public universities with strong academic and research profiles, as well as highly successful athletic programs," West Virginia said in a news release. "But in the big picture, clearly this list has no real credibility."
West Virginia also topped the "Lots of Beer" list while Providence College was No.1 for "Lots of Hard Liquor."
Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, led the "Stone Cold Sober" list.
"Schools on the 'Party Schools' list are those at which surveyed students' answers indicated a combination of: low personal daily study hours (outside of class), high usages of alcohol and drugs on campus and high popularity on campus for frats/sororities," the Princeton Review said on its website.
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University. It is a test preparation and college admissions consulting company based in Framingham, Massachusetts.
Here is the full list of the top 20 party schools:
1) West Virginia University
2) University of Iowa
3) Ohio University
4) University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
5) University of Georgia
6) University of Florida in Gainesville
7) University of California-Santa Barbara
8) Florida State University
9) Miami University of Ohio
10) Syracuse University
11) Penn State University
12) DePauw University
13) University of Wisconsin-Madison
14) University of Mississippi
15) University of Texas-Austin
16) University of Maryland
17) University of South Carolina
18) James Madison University
19) University of Maine
20) University of Tennessee
