(CNN Student News) -- February 10, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Egypt • Silicon Valley  • Texas
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Dedicating today's show to our Facebook fans at Woodbridge High School in Irvine, California. Thanks for your "likes" at Facebook.com/CNNStudentNews! I'm Carl Azuz, your captain of current events on this February 10th, 2011.
First Up: Egypt in Crisis
AZUZ: For Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, things are going pretty much like they normally would. Yesterday, he met with members of his government and officials from other countries. But on the streets of Cairo, things are anything but normal. Thousands of protesters jamming the downtown area for the 16th day in a row. These people are mad at the government and they want Mubarak out of office now. The Egyptian vice president met with some of these protesters and promised that things will change. But there are concerns -- and not just from Egyptians -- that those changes aren't happening quickly enough. Here's CNN's Barbara Starr.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: With crowds swelling in Cairo's Tahrir Square, a greater sense of urgency from the U.S. that the Egyptian government needs to show change is coming. In a phone call, U.S. Vice President Joe Biden telling Egyptian Vice President Omar Suleiman there must be a transition with "immediate, irreversible progress."
ROBERT GIBBS, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Vice President Suleiman made some particularly unhelpful comments about Egypt not being ready for democracy, about not seeing a lift of the emergency law. And I don't, I don't think that in any way squares with what those seeking greater opportunity and freedom think is a timetable for progress.
STARR: But a calmer approach from the Pentagon, where sources say they are easing back from crisis atmosphere.
ROBERT GATES, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: I think the Egyptian military has conducted itself in exemplary fashion during this entire episode. And they have acted with great restraint.
STARR: Middle East analyst Michelle Dunne says the U.S. government message has changed from immediate action to a more protracted process. A process that is unclear.
MICHELE DUNNE, MIDDLE EAST EXPERT, CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT: President Obama has been calling for a transition to begin now. On the other hand, we hear Secretary Clinton a couple of days ago saying we support the process laid about by Vice President Suleiman, which is not a process the opposition has agreed to at all.
STARR: There is a growing concern the man the U.S. is supporting, the new Egyptian vice president, is not on the same page
DUNNE: Up until now, the Obama administration was saying that this had to be a negotiated transition, that the Egyptian government had to deal with the opposition and that the opposition had to be a partner, so to speak, in this transition. What Suleiman is offering right now is not that at all.
(END VIDEO)
More Winter Weather
AZUZ: Weather report is starting to sound like a broken record, and that doesn't make dealing with it any easier. Yes, there is yet another round of winter storms moving across the country. This is what Oklahoma City looked like on Tuesday, parts of the city getting up to 12 inches of snow. And this is just one week after that massive winter storm we reported on hammered the region. There are winter weather alerts from Texas all the way to the East Coast, with forecasts for rain, wind, snow and sleet through the rest of the week.
Sound Check
BEN BERNANKE, FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN: The economic recovery that began in the middle of 2009 appears to have strengthened in the past few months, although the unemployment rate remains high.
State of the Economy
AZUZ: Well, you've heard of the president's State of the Union speech. Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke gave a kind of "state of the economy" address to Congress. And as you heard, he didn't really offer a simple thumbs up or thumbs down. It was kinda like a "thumbs sideways." Talking to the House Budget Committee, Chairman Bernanke said Congress needs to make big changes to help stabilize the economy. The Federal Reserve has taken its own steps to try to get things going in the right direction. But some members of Congress, including the chairman of the budget committee, disagree with the Fed's actions. And they let Bernanke know how they felt during yesterday's hearing.
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Ms. Pendergast's class at Washington Middle School in Yakima, Washington! Name the region in California that's home to many of America's high-tech industries. Is it: A) Death Valley, B) Magnificent Mile, C) Technology Row or D) Silicon Valley? You've got three seconds -- GO! Silicon Valley is where you'll find a center of U.S. information technology. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Silicon Valley's Projected Growth
AZUZ: The name comes from silicon being a main component in computer circuits. You heard Chairman Ben Bernanke a moment ago mention the economic recovery. There are signs of that in Silicon Valley, and it has to do with web sites that a lot of us visit every day. Dan Simon looks at some of the businesses that are on the rise in the valley.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
DAN SIMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Facebook is getting a new home address, the company announcing that it's taking over nearly eighty acres of property here in Menlo Park, California. It's taking over the former campus, which was held by Sun Microsystems.
Facebook also announcing that it's going to be adding about a thousand workers over the next twelve months. And industry observers say it's sort of a barometer of what you're seeing here in Silicon Valley. Google announcing just last week it's adding six thousand people to its workforce. And what you're seeing is basically three sectors where the hirings are taking place.
When it comes to social networking, of course led by Facebook and Twitter, mobile computing. We're talking about smart phones and all the applications that go on those smart phones, a lot of expansion there. And when you talk about cloud computing, any information or data that you get on your phone or PC that comes from the cloud.
I had a chance to talk to Michael Copeland. He's a senior writer for Fortune Magazine. He says this is one of the most exciting periods he's ever seen here at Silicon Valley.
MICHAEL COPELAND, SENIOR WRITER, FORTUNE MAGAZINE: I think it is on fire if you're in the right part of the industry. So clearly, social networking like Facebook, Google, the internet cloud, mobile. Those things are all going like gangbusters. If you're a mobile app developer in Silicon Valley, you can pretty much write your own ticket.
SIMON: Economic figures released from the state of California show that Silicon Valley added a little more than eight thousand jobs in 2010. That trend expected to continue into 2011. But the question is is what broader impact will that have, not only here in California, but across the rest of the United States. Dan Simon, CNN, Menlo Park, California
(END VIDEO)
Proposed Law on Sexting
AZUZ: The state of Texas is considering a new law focused specifically on the issue of "sexting." The Texas attorney general says the goal of this proposed law is to educate instead of criminalize. Right now, sexting can lead to some very serious consequences. Sandra Endo explains how and why the state is thinking about making this change.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
SANDRA ENDO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: When being social turns into sexting, that's when many teens could run into problems. A new proposed law in Texas is aimed at addressing teen sexting, punishing teens who send the texts and their parents.
GREG ABBOTT, TEXAS ATTORNEY GENERAL: They are exposing themselves 'round the world forever more.
ENDO: A new survey shows one in five teens admitted sending or posting suggestive images of themselves. Nearly four in ten teens admitted sending sexually suggestive messages. The proposed law would charge the teen with a misdemeanor, forcing a court appearance, and require parents to enroll in an educational program. Eventually, offenders could wipe the slate clean at 17 years old.
ABBOTT: Our goal is not to put more teens behind bars, but to try to prevent this type of conduct from taking place.
ENDO: Right now, teens can be charged with possessing or trafficking in child pornography, an offense which carries the potential of decades of prison time and being on the registered sex offender list for life. Still, the new proposed law is aimed at helping teens think twice before they click and hit send.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People don't really care. Teenagers don't really care.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They don't think about it at all. They're not thinking when they do it. It's terrible.
ENDO: In Washington, Sandra Endo for CNN Student News.
(END VIDEO)
Before We Go
AZUZ: All right, we need to set the scene for you for today's Before We Go segment: high school basketball game, third quarter's winding down. And that's when he grabs a rebound, one of the players just lets it fly. It made it! All the way across the court. This wasn't half court; this was full court. I don't think he was even trying to score. The buzzer beater still counted. And those three points, actually the winning margin in the game. This YouTube video of the last-second shot is getting a lot of hits.
Goodbye
AZUZ: Which means the shot is generating a lot of buzz-er. We'll try to rebound from that pun tomorrow. And we hope you'll give us a shot. For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.
