A tanning salon manager has filed a federal lawsuit against Chicago police, saying officers brutalized her and committed a hate crime during a raid at the business, then tried to cover up their alleged wrongdoings.
The lawsuit says the incident was captured on store security video that shows one officer striking a handcuffed and kneeling Jianqing "Jessica" Klyzek and another officer shouting racial slurs and threatening to have her killed.
Klyzek, who is of Chinese descent and an American citizen, said in the lawsuit that she asked the officers to justify their actions. She said one officer replied, "You're not (expletive) American! I'll put you in a UPS box and send you back to wherever the (expletive) you came from!"
The lawsuit said that when Klyzek insisted she was indeed a citizen, the officer said, "No, you're not! You're here on our borrowed time. . ... And I'll take this place and then whoever owns it will (expletive) kill you because they don't care about you, OK? I'll take this building. You'll be dead and your family will be dead."
The incident is being investigated by Chicago's Independent Police Review Authority, Chicago police public information officer Adam Collins said.
"The alleged conduct and comments are reprehensible and completely intolerable in our police department," he said. "We have codes of conduct that apply to officers, and if the allegations are proven accurate, appropriate action will be taken."
The raid occurred July 31, 2013, at the Copper Tan and Spa. Police have said they conducted the raid because an employee offered a sex act to an undercover officer, reported CNN affiliate WGN.
Klyzek said police falsified information in investigation reports and charged her with a crime, though the exact charge is not described in the lawsuit. A judge found no probable cause, and the charge was dismissed, the lawsuit said.
Later, police went to a prosecutor, and a case was presented to a grand jury, with Klyzek being indicted for aggravated battery of a police officer, the lawsuit said. The charge was dismissed when prosecutors saw the video, the lawsuit said.
Klyzek said she suffered abrasions on her head, neck, arms and legs. The City of Chicago and 10 police officers are named as defendants.
Albuquerque police have 'pattern' of excessive, deadly force, report says
Former NYPD charged with hate crimes in anti-Semitic vandalism
