Togo international striker Emmanuel Adebayor completed his transfer from English Premier League champions Manchester City to Tottenham Hotspur Tuesday.
Adebayor spent last season on loan at the London club, finishing their top scorer with 18 goals in 37 appearances.
The 28-year-old was expected to make the move permanent, but negotiations stalled over his personal terms.
"It may have taken longer than expected but I am delighted to be back at Tottenham Hotspur. I really enjoyed my time here last season and I am hoping we can achieve great things together again," he told the club's official website.
He also tweeted: "I'm back!!!! Tottenham here I come!! I'm hungry for goals...Get ready."
Adebayor is the third signing for new Tottenham coach Andre Villas-Boas after Icelandic midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson joined from German club Hoffenheim and Belgian international defender Jan Vertonghen switched from Dutch giants Ajax.
Tottenham, who finished fourth last season, began their campaign with a 2-1 defeat at Newcastle, with their attack lacking a cutting edge and with Jermain Defoe as their only recognized senior striker.
Adebayor had fallen out of favor at big-spending City, who opened their title defense with a 3-2 home win over promoted Southampton.
He started his career in England in 2006 with Tottenham's arch rivals Arsenal, before moving to City in 2009. He also spent time on loan at Spanish giants Real Madrid in the 2010-11 season.
In other transfer news Tuesday, Manchester United sealed the signing of defender Alexander Buttner from Vitesse Arnhem on a five-year contract.
The 23-year-old Buttner is the second Dutchman to join up at Old Trafford in a week after the arrival of Robin van Persie from Arsenal.
"Alexander is one of the best young left backs in Europe and we're delighted to sign him," United manager Alex Ferguson told the club's official website.
Fellow EPL side Norwich City strengthened their defense by signing Cameroon defender Sebastien Bassong from Tottenham on a three-year deal.
Bassong, who played for his country at the 2010 World Cup, was formerly at Newcastle with new Norwich manager Chris Hughton.
