As the U.S. House of Representatives resumes regular business Monday for the first time since since the January 8 Arizona shootings, the congresswoman shot in the attack continued to make progress, and mourners said goodbye to a staff member who rushed to the aid of others and a retired construction worker who died shielding his wife.
U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords was upgraded from critical to serious condition Sunday, eight days after being shot through the brain at a public event.
"The congresswoman continues to do well," University Medical Center in Tucson said in a statement Sunday.
Giffords was among 19 people shot at the "Congress on Your Corner" event at a Tucson supermarket. Authorities believe she was the target of the mass shooting that left six dead and another 13 wounded. A 22-year-old suspect, Jared Lee Loughner, is in custody.
On Sunday, the funeral for Dorwan Stoddard took place in Tucson. Witnesses said when the gunfire rang out, Stoddard, 76, was trying to protect his wife, Mavy, when he was shot in the head and fell onto her.
Mavy Stoddard was shot three times in her legs but is expected to recover.
"He threw himself over me," Mavy Stoddard said last week. "I think it was the last shots that killed him. So he saved my life, and gave his for it. And you cannot ask for much more."
A memorial for Gabriel "Gabe" Zimmerman, 30, also took place Sunday. Zimmerman was director for community outreach on Giffords' staff and was engaged to be married.
In addition to Stoddard and Zimmerman, those killed included 9-year-old Christina Green; Arizona's chief federal judge, John Roll; Dorothy Morris, 76; and Phyllis Schneck, 79.
The contentious issue of gun control was put in the spotlight Saturday when one of the 13 wounded in the attack was involuntarily committed to a county mental services unit after he made threats against a Tea Party member at a town hall event in Tucson.
James Eric Fuller, 63, photographed Trent Humphries and said, "You are dead," when Humphries began speaking at the event, according to Pima County Sheriff's Department spokesman Jason Ogan.
Humphries told CNN that Fuller's comment came when the town hall discussion turned toward the issue of gun control.
"I was asked to give my thoughts on gun control laws and perhaps the passage of new laws," Humphries said of the incident. "I said something to the effect that although gun rights and laws are not necessarily the primary focus of the Tucson Tea Party, our community needs to be given the opportunity to allow some time to pass and people to heal before we start this type of political dialogue."
CNN's Jason Hanna contributed to this report.
