There is rarely a dull moment in the career of Mario Balotelli but the controversial striker has at least been prepared to take his medicine in the latest spat with his club Manchester City.
The Italian striker had appealed to an English Premier League tribunal after he was fined for a poor disciplinary record during City's title-winning season in 2011/12.
Balotelli, signed from Inter Milan by City boss Roberto Mancini for $39.1 million in 2010, missed a total of 11 domestic and European games through suspension and was reportedly fined two weeks wages by his club as a result.
The 22-year-old appealed the decision and his lawyers had been preparing to state his case at a Premier League tribunal on Wednesday.
Manchester derby thriller marred by 'English disease'
But a statement released by the club confirmed the Italy international had dropped his appeal after the two parties resolved their differences.
"After amicable talks between the parties, as a sign of respect for Roberto Mancini, the supporters and the club, Mario Balotelli has chosen to accept a two week fine levied upon him by the club and withdraw his disciplinary appeal, which was due to be heard by a Premier League panel," it read.
"Mario remains available for selection for all forthcoming fixtures."
Balotelli has infuriated his manager on several occasions during his two seasons at the club, Mancini stating only recently that the striker needed to train harder to get into the team.
Twice Balotelli hasn't made City's 25-man squad in the Premier League this campaign and he was substituted at halftime in City's recent 3-2 derby defeat to neighbors Manchester United.
Despite his disciplinary record, Balotelli did set up a goal for Argentina striker Sergio Aguero that secured City their first title in 44 years on a dramatic final day of last season.
That came after Mancini said Balotelli may never play for the club again after he was sent off during a defeat at Arsenal that had seemed to spell the end to their title campaign.
Balotelli played a key role in Italy's team as they made the final of Euro 2012, where they were beaten 4-1 by World champions Spain.
