Building upon the success of the Green Week franchise, CNN International expands its environmental coverage this year with special Earth Day reports on April 22, and plans additional specials in July and October and a series of comprehensive reports around the Copenhagen Climate Conference in December.
On Earth Day, Wednesday April 22, CNN International's special coverage, "Going Green," will showcase the network's extensive global resources with an array of reports and live coverage of Earth Day events around the world.
From specific signature newscasts to business shows, the network will focus its attention on everything green and help make sense of what it means to be green today. In addition, CNN International will change the network's signature red logo to green during the coverage.
"CNN International is committed to green coverage," said Katherine Green, senior vice president of CNN International. "It is a topic that resonates with our viewers and with our correspondents. We have reporters all over the world. They find stories no else can. This allows us to give our viewers a true global picture of the environmental issues and solutions."
The network's business programs, 'World Business Today' and 'Quest Means Business', will focus on the business of going green. From the CEO of an up-and-coming green company to a climate change skeptic, these programs will speak to a variety of people to offer viewers many perspectives on green topics.
Throughout the day, CNN International will engage their international audiences asking them what they are doing to be green. iReport correspondent, Errol Barnett, will solicit iReports and ask viewers to describe what they have done to "go green" in the past year. He'll also share those iReports throughout the day in special segments across CNN International's programs.
On Saturday, April 25 at 1300 BST and Sunday, April 26 at 0100 and 1900 BST, a special programme, 'Your Green World', will focus on the current state of green initiatives around the planet.
Correspondents from different parts of the world will report on how the current concern over the state of the environment touches the lives of global citizens.
The special will explore many stories, including an initiative in Jakarta, Indonesia that promotes the planting of trees before a couple can get married, and a US recycling plant that tackles financial hurdles brought by the country's financial downturn.
