JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -- South African fast bowler Dale Steyn took a career-best five for 34 as the Proteas took a tight grip on the first test against New Zealand in Johannesburg.
Steyn's career-best 5-34 was his fourth five-wicket haul in 14 tests.
New Zealand were bowled out for 118 in reply to South Africa's 226 and the home side piled on the agony by reaching 179 for two in their second innings.
Hashim Amla and Jacques Kallis shared an unbeaten stand of 159 as South Africa stretched their lead to 287.
South Africa's bowlers excelled to bring their side back into the game after their disappointing first innings.
They snapped up five wickets in the morning session when the Kiwis could only muster 56 runs.
Former New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming made 40 but the next best score was new cap Ross Taylor's 15.
Fleming was struck on the right forearm by Steyn and did not field during the afternoon. Coach John Bracewell said he had gone for precautionary X-rays but there was only bruising.
New Zealand, 41 for two overnight, lost nightwatchman Shane Bond, bowled by a Steyn yorker, before Makhaya Ntini claimed the crucial wicket of Fleming, who was well caught by AB de Villiers diving to his left at third slip.
Scott Styris and Taylor scraped 19 runs in 10 overs before more wickets tumbled.
Steyn's figures bettered his previous best of five for 47 against the same opponents at Centurion two seasons ago. It was his fourth five-wicket haul in 14 tests.
Ntini took three for 47 and Kallis two for 11.
South Africa made an uncertain start to their second innings with openers Herschelle Gibbs and captain Graeme Smith out cheaply, but Amla and Kallis blunted the attack and then took charge.
They batted together for 205 minutes, Amla facing 230 balls and hitting 13 boundaries in his 85 while Kallis hit 12 fours off 122 deliveries in reaching 76.
The Kiwis were left to regret  Brendon McCullum's failure to hold a chance from Amla off Shane Bond, when the batsman had only scored two.
"The ball was hard and new and we were trying to get momentum. It cost us a lot," said coach John Bracewell. E-mail to a friend
