Portugal defender Ricardo Carvalho has rejoined former coach Jose Mourinho after completing a transfer to Spanish giants Real Madrid.
The 32-year-old, who made 22 appearances for Chelsea last season as the London club clinched their second English Premier League title, signed a two-year-deal.
Carvalho will join his international compatriot Cristiano Ronaldo at the Bernabeu, becoming Madrid's fifth signing of the close season.
"Chelsea Football Club can confirm it has agreed terms with Real Madrid for the transfer of Ricardo Carvalho," read a statement on the club's official website.
"Chelsea would like to thank Riccy [Carvalho] for his six years of service, and we wish him well in his future career."
Mourinho tells CNN: Real can reign in Spain
It is the second time Mourinho has signed Carvalho. After winning the European Champions League with Porto in 2004, a side which featured Carvalho at the heart of the defense, Mourinho took the central defender with him to Stamford Bridge in a deal worth $31 million.
He made 210 appearances for the Blues, becoming the club's fourth longest-serving player. During this six-year spell, Carvalho scored 11 times and picked up three Premier League titles, as well as five domestic cups.
Yet Carvalho's relationship with Mourinho has not always been smooth.
In 2005 he publicly criticized Mourinho's selection policy, leading the coach to question Carvalho's intelligence during a press conference.
"Ricardo Carvalho seems to have problems understanding things, maybe he should have an IQ test," said Mourinho.
However, Carvalho told Spanish newspaper AS last month that he relished the chance of a new future in Spain with his former boss.
"With Mourinho I experienced two marvelous stages at Porto and Chelsea. To have the opportunity to win another Champions League with him at Real Madrid would be tremendous."
Since leaving Inter Milan, where he won the Scudetta and the Champions League last season, Mourinho has been linked with a string of his former players, including Chelsea left-back Ashley Cole and Inter's Brazilian wing-back Maicon.
