An anonymous client wants to buy the Kim Kardashian sex tape from the porn company that owns it so it can be taken off the websites where people now pay to view it, according to a lawyer.
The porn video, made with R&B singer Ray J, brought Kardashian celebrity and launched her reality show career, but she entered a new phase of her life with her marriage this month to NBA player Kris Humphries.
Nashville attorney Adam Dread confirmed to CNN he sent a letter to Vivid Entertainment on Monday asking to start negotiations for the sex tape's sale.
"Recently, I was approached by a private party who asked us to look into the possibility of acquiring all rights (and copies) of the Vivid 'Kim Kardashian Sex Tape,'" Dread wrote in the letter obtained by CNN.
Dread would not disclose the name of his client to CNN, saying "Unless I'm told otherwise, this is all confidential."
Kardashian and her representative did not respond to CNN's call for comment. A representative for Ray J also did not comment when contacted.
The video, which is viewable online for a fee, drew dramatically increased traffic during the weekend of Kardashian's much-publicized wedding to Humphries, Vivid chief Steven Hirsch said.
Hirsch has not yet responded to Dread's offer, the lawyer said.
"I was surprised to receive the attorney's letter offering to buy kimksuperstar.com," Hirsch told CNN Tuesday. "Initially, I thought the offer wasn't real, but after reading it through a second time, I am definitely intrigued."
"I'm happy to talk numbers anytime," Dread said when CNN read him Hirsch's response.
Kardashian sued Vivid four years ago when Vivid first made the sex tape public. The legal battle ended with a monetary settlement in which Kardashian would share in the profits, Hirsch said.
Dread's letter to Vivid said his client "does not intend to distribute or broadcast the 'tape,' but hopes to completely remove it from the market."
He also offered to "purchase any other footage you may have control of that involves Ms. Kardashian."
CNN's Jack Hannah contributed to this report.
