As summer winds to an end, beach umbrellas are coming down and pools are closing, but that doesn't mean the fun is finished. From the National Buffalo Wing Festival crowning the next 'wing king' to the country's best folk artists coming together in Pennsylvania, festivals across the country have fun for everyone.
CNN has compiled a list of five festivals from across the country for your last-gasp summer adventure.
Philadelphia Folk Festival, Schwenksville, Pennsylvania, August 14-16
Fans take in the sights and sounds at last year's San Francisco's Outside Lands Music and Arts Festival
If the latest Lady Gaga song isn't your thing, head to the Philadelphia Folk Festival and detoxify your musical system. Located on the Old Pool Farm, an hour outside of the city, the 48th annual festival brings in big names ranging from The Decemberists to Jill Sobule. The festival also has a large craft area with artists selling everything from jewelry to unique blown glass items.
Check the Philadelphia Folk Festival Web site for schedule and ticket information
Admission: 3-day ticket $131 (one day tickets from $54)
Chicago Air and Water Show, Chicago, Illinois, August 15-16
Your neck might be sore from all the fun after watching planes zoom over the Chicago skyline and parachutists dazzle spectators with their flips at the Chicago Air and Water Show. The two day event wows the over 2 million visitors yearly with performances by the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds flying at speeds of 1,500 miles per hour or U.S. Army's Golden Knight Parachute Team jumping from 12,500 feet.
Lake Michigan sparkles with an hour-long jet skiing and water boarding show if lake conditions permit. Mary May, an event spokesperson, said families return year after year, many from out-of-state.
Check the Chicago Air and Water Show Web site for schedule
Admission: Free
Atlanta Underground Film Festival, Atlanta, Georgia, August 26-30
The late summer heat, especially in Atlanta, can be brutal, so sneak inside and enjoy independent movies at the Atlanta Underground Film Festival. Located at various theaters across Atlanta, independent movies produced by fledgling filmmakers vie for awards like "Best Comedy Feature" and the prized "AUFF the Wall" award. In addition, the five day event showcases animated films, documentaries, and horror movies. The festival, which started in 2002, is produced by a group of musicians and filmmakers called the "Festival League" that was created to highlight work of fledgling artists.
Check the Atlanta Underground Film Festival Web site for movie lineup
Admission: All access pass $40
San Francisco's Outside Lands Music and Arts Festival, San Francisco, California, August 28-30
A concert with Tom Jones and Tenacious D on one bill, is going to be a unique event and that's exactly what the Outside Lands Music and Arts Festival is. The three day event takes place in the picturesque Golden Gate Park and includes much more than the music industry's top stars. On top of performances from Dave Matthews Band and M.I.A, the festival features food from the city's top restaurants, wines from 25 local wineries and performances from local cabarets.
Check San Francisco's Outside Lands Music and Arts Festival for band lineup and ticket information
Admission: Advance 3-day ticket $225.50 (one day ticket from $89.50)
National Buffalo Wing Festival, Buffalo, New York, September 5-6
Add spice to your summers end festivities and head to Buffalo, New York, for the seventh annual National Buffalo Wing Festival where you can try 100 different types of wings and sauces. The rise in antacid sales can be attributed to event founder Drew Cerza who noticed, thanks in part to Bill Murray's character in "Osmosis Jones" who wanted to compete in a junk food competition, that Buffalo didn't have a festival dedicated to America's favorite appetizer.
Started in 2002, restaurants from around the nation exhibit their wings and competitive eaters vie to eat the most Buffalo wings in 12 minutes. Amateurs can also enter the "Buffalo Blue Cheese Bowl" where contestants have their hands tied behind their backs and bob for wings drenched in blue cheese dressing in a kiddy pool. Cerza said last year's festival brought in 80,000 attendees and over 500,000 wings were eaten and expects this year's festival to be larger.
Check the Buffalo Wing Festival Web site for competing restaurants and location
Admission: $5 + food tickets
