(CNN Student News) -- September 12, 2014
This Friday, CNN Student News discusses an upcoming independence vote in Scotland, the dangers of opiates, and the difficulty of containing a deadly virus in West Africa. We also feature a Character Study about a woman who dedicated her life to both hearing and helping lions roar.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. On what issue did President Obama postpone a planned executive order until after the midterm elections?
2. On what river would you find the Haditha Dam, where U.S. airstrikes assisted Iraqi forces in battling terrorists Sunday?
3. In which U.S. state would you find Lake Oroville, which has been virtually dried up by drought?
4. Hamas is the militant group that controls what Palestinian territory?
5. In what ocean have officials launched a revised search for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370?
6. What NFL running back was suspended indefinitely after video surfaced showing him assaulting his then-fiancee?
7. In the first-ever telephone call, who said he wanted to see Mr. Watson?
8. In what U.S. national park would you find Half Dome?
9. Who wrote the poem "The Star-Spangled Banner" during the Battle of Baltimore 200 years ago?
10. What division of the United Kingdom is scheduled to vote on whether it should become an independent nation?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
