Titleholders Inter Milan will take on Bayern Munich in the last 16 of the Champions League after Friday's draw produced a repeat of last season's final.
Italian side Inter went into the pot knowing that a tie with one of Europe's top sides was likely after qualifying for the knockout stages in second place in Group A behind Tottenham.
"It's an interesting draw," Inter chairman Massimo Moratti told the club's official website. "We've faced Bayern Munich lots of times in the past, it's almost a traditional fixture."
Rafael Benitez's side will have home advantage for the first leg, which will be played in February, while the trip to Germany will take place in March.
Bayern, beaten 2-0 in May's final when Jose Mourinho was in charge of Inter, have struggled in the Bundesliga but topped Group E with five wins from six matches.
"Inter is an extremely tough draw. Probably the most difficult draw open to us," Bayern chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge told the club's website. "But it's also a very appealing draw for us. This is now our chance to take revenge."
Barcelona will play English club Arsenal in a repeat of the 2006 final and last season's quarterfinals, both of which were won by the Spanish champions.
"Difficult but possible," was Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger's reaction to the draw.
"I didn't want anybody really, all teams would have been difficult," he told his club's official website. "Barcelona are certainly the favorites but they did not want us either because they know they will get a game."
Barca's Spanish rivals Real Madrid have the chance to avenge last season's second-round defeat by French club Lyon, who went on to reach the semifinals.
Mourinho will seek to take his expensively-assembled team past the last-16 stage for the first time since 2004 as Real bid for a 10th title.
Madrid legend Emilio Butragueno, who was present at the draw, believes his former club will reach the later stages of the competition this year.
"This is a cruel but thrilling competition. We drew Lyon and must accept it," he said on Real's website. "We must be very focused. We are more than capable of making the quarterfinals."
English club Tottenham's reward for finishing top in Group A in their first appearance in the competition is another trip to Italy to face AC Milan.
The Serie A leaders, who finished second behind Real in Group G, are seeking an eighth title, having last won it in 2007.
Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp described the match as a "great challenge."
"I said before the draw that I wouldn't mind playing AC Milan," he told the London side's website. "You want to take on the best teams in the world, and that's what the fans want to see as well."
Three-time champions Manchester United will travel to France next month for the first leg against 1993 winners Marseille.
Manager Alex Ferguson told the United website it would be a "difficult tie".
"Marseille are a handful at their own ground, their fantastic atmosphere and incredible support guarantees that. They've had a good change in fortunes in the last two or three years," he said.
English rivals Chelsea, who also topped their group, will face Copenhagen -- the first Danish team to reach the knockout stages after finishing second in Group D behind Barcelona.
But Chelsea chief executive Ron Gourlay said the Premier League champions would not underestimate their opponents.
"'There's no easy games at this stage and we'll be very careful," he told the club's website.
Shakhtar Donetsk will also face a last-16 tie for the first time after topping Group H ahead of Arsenal, and the Ukrainian side will travel to the Italian capital to play AS Roma in next month's first leg.
German club Schalke, who topped Group B ahead of Lyon, will travel to Spain for the first leg of their second-round clash with Valencia -- second behind Manchester United in Group C.
Champions League last-16 draw
AS Roma (Italy) v Shakhtar Donetsk (Ukraine) AC Milan (Italy) v Tottenham (England) Valencia (Spain) v Schalke (Germany) Inter Milan (Italy) v Bayern Munich (Germany) Lyon (France) v Real Madrid (Spain)  Arsenal (England) v Barcelona (Spain) Marseille (France) v Manchester United (England) Copenhagen (Denmark)  v Chelsea (England)
First leg to be played on February 15-16 and 22-23 Second leg on March 8-9 and 15-16
