Carlos Tevez may have escaped the clutches of the Premier League by joining Italian giant Juventus -- but the long arm of the law could yet bring the striker back to English shores.
Tevez, who completed his $13 million move from Manchester City to the Serie A champion Thursday, has yet to complete his community service in England according to sources close to the case.
The Argentina international avoided jail last March after pleading guilty to the charge of driving while disqualified and accepted the punishment of 250 hours of community service and a $1,500 fine.
While the exact number of hours owed by Tevez has not been made public, he must complete his punishment within the 12 months of it being handed out.
Community service punishments in the United Kingdom range from 40 hours to 300 -- with a minimum of seven hours per week being served.
A Probation Service spokesperson told CNN: "We do not comment on individuals.
"Offenders must serve the sentences handed down to them by the courts. Anyone who fails to do so will have action taken against them."
CNN also contacted BCL Burton Copeland, the firm which represented Tevez at his trial, but it refused to comment on the matter.
Meanwhile, Tevez revealed his delight Thursday at being handed the iconic number 10 shirt following the completion of his move to Turin.
Tevez will follow in the footsteps of Bianconeri legends Michel Platini, Roberto Baggio and most recently, Alessandro Del Piero.
"I'm absolutely aware of the great effort Juventus Football Club has made to bring me here," he told reporters.
"I feel the responsibility of wearing this number and I am aware of the great responsibility of representing Juventus and playing for the club. This number is certainly a great challenge.
"Top players have worn it before and I was number 10 with Boca (Juniors) before, and (Diego) Maradona played in it too, so the great responsibility is now that I'm going to play in this great club. So certainly the greatest challenge is to do my best.
"Obviously I didn't want to forget Del Piero, who was the last player to wear number 10. He is a person and player that I greatly respect and who certainly represents an emblem and symbol of esteem.
"It is a great pleasure and honor to wear this jersey with his number."
Tevez's move to Italy brings an eventful seven-year spell in England where he played for West Ham, Manchester United and Manchester City.
He endured a turbulent time at City after being exiled for six months by former manager Roberto Mancini following his refusal to warm up during a Champions League clash at Bayern Munich in 2011.
Mancini's departure at the end of last season failed to persuade Tevez from seeking pastures new -- although he denies that he turned down a move to AC Milan following claims by the club's vice-president Adriano Galliani.
"I want to be very clear and honest," he said. "I've only talked to Galliani a couple of times in my life," said Tevez.
"The last time was last year when there was an intention to bring me to AC Milan but I don't know why he has said such a thing.
"Today I'm here and that's what matters, I'm very happy to be here."
Isco
Elsewhere, new Real Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti completed his first signing since taking over from Jose Mourinho with the acquisition of Spain under-21 and Malaga star Isco.
Isco was a stand out star for the Spain under-21 team which retained the European Championship in Israel, scoring three goals following a stunning season with Malaga.
"Real Madrid incorporates a new project with one of the best Spanish football players," the club said in a statement.
"Francisco Roman Alarcon - Isco - plays at the Bernabeu for the next five seasons."
The 21-year-old midfielder scored 12 goals in 45 appearances last season and made his full international debut against Uruguay last February.
"Imagination and speed are some of the qualities that define this midfielder... a recent champion with Spain at Euro Under-21 and at age 21 already capped by the senior team," Madrid's statement added.
"[He is] a player with enviable technical quality, chutzpah and imagination."
