Martin Kaymer has claimed golf's No. 1 ranking after reaching the final of the World Match Play tournament in Arizona on Saturday.
The German toppled Englishman Lee Westwood as he first beat Spanish veteran Miguel Angel Jimenez in the quarterfinals and then ended the hopes of American Bubba Watson.
The 26-year-old will face European Ryder Cup teammate Luke Donald in Sunday's final at Dove Mountain's Ritz-Carlton course after the Englishman made light work of his matches against Americans Ryan Moore and Matt Kuchar.
"It has taken me only five years to get to number one. For myself, my family and the people I work with, it's a great achievement," Kaymer told reporters.
"I was not thinking about the number one spot as I was sure I would get the opportunity again over the next few weeks, I just wanted to win the match.
"Luke is probably one of the best match-play players in the world. We get along well, but because it's a final it will add more pressure."
Westwood had been top of the rankings since the end of October, when he ended Tiger Woods' record reign, but he lost in the second round of the $8.5 million tournament.
European Tour No. 1 Kaymer won both of his matches at the 18th, surviving a late rally from Jimenez after leading by four holes at 14.
Kaymer closes on golf's top spot
Jimenez -- at 47 the oldest man in the initial 64-strong field -- reduced the gap to one as Kaymer lost his accuracy, but then failed to find the green in regulation at the last.
Kaymer was pegged back three times by Watson -- who earlier beat compatriot J.B. Holmes at the first extra hole of their quarterfinal -- but won 15 and 16 before the left-hander birdied 17.
Watson struggled to find the green at 18, and Kaymer sank an eight-foot par putt to seal victory.
Sunday's opponent Donald can climb to third in the world rankings with victory in the final, which would end his five-year title title drought in U.S. events and earn him $1.4 million.
Westwood and Mickelson crash out of Match Play
The 33-year-old opened the day in fine style with a 5 & 4 win over Moore as he led from the first green, and won three holes in a row from the eighth before his fifth birdie of the match at 14 sealed it.
Donald then thrashed U.S. Ryder Cup player and 2010 PGA Tour money list champion Kuchar 6 & 5 in the first semifinal to be completed.
He fired six birdies in 13 holes in increasingly windy conditions at Dove Mountain's Ritz-Carlton course.
Kuchar earlier eliminated 2009 PGA Championship winner Y.E. Yang, defeating the 39-year-old Korean 2 & 1 in the quarterfinals.
Woods follows Poulter out of WGC-Match Play championship
Yang, who beat U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell on Friday, was never ahead in the match and trailed by four holes after the eighth, then Kuchar matched his four consecutive pars to 17.
Watson came from 5-down after 10 holes to beat Holmes at the 19th hole, which his compatriot bogeyed to go behind for the first time in the match.
The semifinals were originally scheduled for Sunday, but warnings of adverse weather meant they were brought forward.
Organizers hope the final will not be disrupted by the forecast drop in temperatures which could bring snow to the desert course.
