Let's face it; most awards shows can be pretty dull. It's not that we don't tune in to every single one, of course, but it's always a pleasant surprise when the ceremony is actually fun to watch.
Last night's Emmy Awards hosted by Jane Lynch not only honored Emmy shoo-ins like "The Daily Show," "Mad Men" and "Modern Family" and fan favorite "Friday Night Lights" alike, but also brought the laughs.
Here are our top five funniest moments.
1. Leading ladies storm the stage
As soon as Sofia Vergara and Rob Lowe presented the nominees for outstanding lead actress in a comedy, Amy Poehler, whose name was read first for "Parks and Recreation'" smiled at the camera and then promptly ran up onto the stage before any of the other nominees -- let alone the winner -- was announced.
As Vergara and Lowe continued to read names, each of Poehler's fellow funny women, Melissa McCarthy ("Mike and Molly"), Martha Plimpton ("Raising Hope"), Edie Falco ("Nurse Jackie"), Tina Fey ("30 Rock") and Laura Linney ("The Big C") joined her on stage. The group lined up and held hands in their best beauty pageant re-enactment while waiting for the big reveal -- a bit which received a standing ovation from the audience.
To top off an already stellar and hilarious display of female solidarity, when McCarthy won the Emmy she not only received genuine smiles and big hugs from the rest of the women, but also walked away with a bouquet of roses and a tiara as a bonus.
"Wow, it's my first and best pageant ever!" McCarthy said.
2. All-star 'Office'
Back from commercial break, viewers were treated to a sketch where characters from different shows all popped up at the Dunder-Mifflin office to discuss their least favorite thing about their jobs.
There was Tom Haverford from "Parks and Recreation," Tracy Jordan from "30 Rock," Roger Sterling from "Mad Men" and Jesse Pinkman from "Breaking Bad" (who we learn is Creed's crystal meth dealer) and more. Kim Kardashian showed up, but even she was a little confused as to why. "I'm sorry, I'm not sure I get the question," she deadpanned. "What do you mean by work? Am I saying that word right? Work?"
Finally, we see Ashton Kutcher in Michael Scott's old office, but the rest of the staff is sure this is a mistake. "I'm pretty sure that I'm taking over as the new lead," Kutcher said. When Ed Helms tells him that's for a different show and this isn't Warner Brothers lot, it all clicks for Kutcher. "Oh, I was wondering where the half man was!"
3. Jane Lynch's shortest, sweetest zinger
"A lot of people are curious why I'm a lesbian. Ladies and gentleman ... the cast of Entourage."
4. Steven Levitan's wife
When Steve Levitan and Jeffrey Rich of "Modern Family" won for outstanding writing in a comedy series, it was a safe bet that the speech would be funny. But viewers weren't expecting Levitan's wife Krista's perfect, comedic timing to steal the show.
When Levitan explained that the inspiration for the winning episode was when his children walked in on him and his wife "in the act," Krista looked directly at the camera and rolled her eyes. Later in the speech when Levitan went back to the mic to thank his "somewhat-satisfied wife," she reprised the disgruntled eye roll and forever cemented a place in our hearts.
5. Remote Ricky Gervais
Just when we thought all the joke mileage that could be gotten out of Ricky Gervais' Golden Globes hosting controversy had run out ages ago, he once again faced some of the celebs he slammed -- albeit in an Emmy pre-recorded message.
"Sorry I can't be there live in person," he said. "Not allowed. In fact, now during any awards ceremony, I'm not even allowed on American soil. And the Emmy bosses have warned me that if I say anything rude or controversial, they will edit it out and you won't know the difference."
He then began to deliver a speech full of obvious jump-cut edits when he veered into potentially dangerous territory, like when he said some shows that had beaten him out for Emmys were, in his opinion, absolute ... "Schindler's List."
What were your favorite moments of the 63rd Primetime Emmy Awards? Tell us in the comments below.
