Top seed Caroline Wozniacki kept her hopes of a maiden grand slam title alive on Tuesday when she came from behind to defeat Francesca Schiavone in the Australian Open quarterfinals.
Denmark's Wozniacki lost the first set in her last-eight tie with sixth seed Schiavone before she fought back to clinch a 3-6 6-3 6-3 success.
Schiavone, from Italy, overcame Svetlana Kuznetsova in an energy-sapping four-hour match on Sunday, however, she still had enough in the tank to take the opening set and steal a break of serve at the start of the second.
Wozniacki had never reached the semifinals at Melbourne Park, but she battled back to set up a last-four meeting with ninth seed Li Na.
"It was very difficult," Wozniacki told the WTA Tour's website. "Francesca was playing well. I just thought, 'Take one ball at a time and don't give up.'
"That's what happens sometimes in tennis. You just need to stay focused. Today everything went in my favor afterwards and I'm happy to sit here as the winner."
World number one Wozniacki, who was beaten in the 2009 U.S. Open final by Kim Clijsters, ensured she will remain at the top of the rankings with her last-eight victory.
"I don't think about the rankings," she said. "I just want to win every match I'm playing, then we'll see what happens. If I'm number one, it's fantastic, but I'm focusing on my matches."
Li booked her second-successive semifinal appearance in Melbourne with a 6-2 6-4 over Germany's Andrea Petkovic.
China's Li has enjoyed a perfect start to the 2011 season with a run of 10 victories in a row.
"It was tough," the 28-year-old said. "I only practiced with Andrea one time last year. So, at the beginning of the match, I was a little bit nervous. But I played well today."
Li, who lost to eventual winner Serena Williams in the 2010 tournament, is bidding to become China's first grand slam singles champion.
Germany's Petkovic said after their clash she believes her conqueror will go on to claim the title.
"I think she played really well," the 30th seed said. "I think she's going to win the tournament.
"It's just the feeling, how she is on the court, her confidence and the way she's playing. Sometimes you get the feeling during the match that somebody is really strong and just has that confidence going on, that aura maybe."
