Tunisia's interim Prime Minister Ali Laarayedh has confirmed that he will submit his resignation Thursday, the state news agency reported, as part of a deal aimed at putting the North African country's transition to democracy back on track.
His successor, Industry Minister Mehdi Jomaa, is expected to announce a new caretaker government before the end of the week.
Laarayedh will hand his resignation to President Moncef Marzouki Thursday afternoon, the state-run TAP news agency said.
Tunisia -- the cradle of the 2011 Arab Spring uprisings that toppled autocratic leaders in one of the most conservative corners of the world -- has been in crisis since the killings of two secular opposition leaders by gunmen last year.
Thursday's move is in line with an agreement between the government and opposition last year to end a political deadlock.
That deal foresaw the ruling Islamist Ennahda party handing over power once parties had finished writing a new constitution and appointed an electoral commission to oversee new elections.
Tunisia's national assembly has been voting on the last clauses of the new charter this week and on Wednesday appointed the electoral committee.
Economic woes
The once-banned moderate Islamist Ennahda party won elections in October 2012 -- the first after the January 2011 ouster of former autocratic leader Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali -- and formed an Islamist-led government.
But political turmoil has beset the North African country, which relies heavily on foreign tourists for revenue, and the presidency has declared a state of emergency.
One of the most secular nations in the Arab world,Tunisia slid into a stalemate after the assassination of two secular politicians, widening divisions over the role of Islam.
Ennahda condemned the killings, but the opposition accused it of failing to rein in radical Islamists.
The political wrangling that followed has threatened to disrupt a democratic transition in a country once seen as a model of post-revolutionary stability in a still volatile region.
The uneasy compromise between Ennahda and the secular opposition in Tunisia's transition contrasts with instability affecting Libya, Egypt and Yemen, countries which also ousted leaders in the 2011 Arab Spring.
CNN's Laura Smith-Spark and Saad Abedine contributed to this report
