The MTV Video Music Awards nominations are out, and 2014's show is set to be all about Beyonce.
The 32-year-old singer leads this year's group of nominees with a total of eight, including nods for video of the year, best female video, best choreography and best video with a social message.
Two of Bey's nominations are shared with her husband, Jay Z, who appears on the single "Drunk in Love." The sultry black-and-white music video that accompanied the track is nominated for video of the year and best collaboration.
Right behind Beyonce are a pair of MCs: Australian newcomer Iggy Azalea and returned rap giant Eminem received seven nominations each.
The twerking star of last year's MTV VMAs, Miley Cyrus, is up for two awards: video of the year and best direction for her "Wrecking Ball" clip.
Some of the other 2014 nominees include:
Video of the year
Beyonce ft. Jay Z, "Drunk in Love"
Iggy Azalea ft. Charli XCX, "Fancy"
Miley Cyrus, "Wrecking Ball"
Pharrell Williams, "Happy"
Sia, "Chandelier"
Best male video
Ed Sheeran ft. Pharrell Williams, "Sing"
Eminem ft. Rihanna, "The Monster"
John Legend, "All of Me"
Pharrell Williams, "Happy"
Sam Smith, "Stay With Me"
Best female video
Ariana Grande ft. Iggy Azalea, "Problem"
Beyonce, "Partition"
Iggy Azalea ft. Charli XCX, "Fancy"
Katy Perry ft. Juicy J, "Dark Horse"
Lorde, "Royals"
Best hip-hop video
Childish Gambino, "3005″
Drake ft. Majid Jordan, "Hold On (We're Going Home)"
Eminem, "Berzerk"
Kanye West, "Black Skinhead"
Wiz Khalifa, "We Dem Boyz"
Best pop video
Ariana Grande ft. Iggy Azalea, "Problem"
Avicii ft. Aloe Blacc, "Wake Me Up"
Iggy Azalea ft. Charli XCX, "Fancy"
Jason Derulo ft. 2 Chainz, "Talk Dirty"
Pharrell Williams, "Happy"
Best rock video
Arctic Monkeys, "Do I Wanna Know?"
Black Keys, "Fever"
Imagine Dragons, "Demons"
Linkin Park, "Until It's Gone"
Lorde, "Royals"
The 2014 MTV Video Music Awards will be held on the West Coast this year at the Forum in Inglewood, California. The show will air live at 9 p.m. ET/PT on August 24. To see the full list of nominees, visit MTV.com.
