Consider it a preview of a coming attraction: Reese Witherspoon stars in "Hangover Atlanta." The trailer, if you will, is a video of the Oscar-winning actress being delivered to the Atlanta jail by a Georgia state trooper.
Atlanta police released the short security camera video Tuesday showing a trooper letting Witherspoon, 37, out of his patrol car and taking handcuffs off her before walking her into the jail early Friday.
Witherspoon's disorderly conduct arrest on an Atlanta street was recorded by the trooper's dashboard camera, but you won't see that until prosecution of her case and her husband's drunken driving charge are completed, the Georgia State Patrol said.
Quoted: Reese Witherspoon, is that really you?
'Hangover Atlanta' Act 1
Based on the screenplay -- officially known as the arrest report -- the Oscar-winning actress had several memorable lines:
Witherspoon: "Do you know my name?"
Trooper First Class James Pyland: "No, I don't need to know your name -- right now."
Witherspoon: "You're about to find out who I am."
Trooper Pyland: "I am not worried about you ma'am. I already told you how things work."
In another exchange, Witherspoon questioned if Pyland was a real officer, the report authored by Pyland says.
Her theatrics earned Witherspoon a pair of handcuffs and a ride to jail.
"You are going to be on national news," Witherspoon allegedly told the trooper.
"I advised Mrs. Witherspoon that was fine," Pyland said in his narration.
'Hangover Atlanta' Act 2
Witherspoon's second act script included a sober apology, issued through a publicist Monday, three days after the arrest and a day after it became public.
"But I do want to say, I clearly had one drink too many and I am deeply embarrassed about the things I said," the actress said in her statement. "It was definitely a scary situation and I was frightened for my husband, but that is no excuse. I was disrespectful to the officer who was just doing his job. I have nothing but respect for the police and I'm very sorry for my behavior."
Her husband, Hollywood agent James Toth, was driving a Ford Fusion along Atlanta's Peachtree Road early Friday when Trooper Pyland pulled him over for weaving across lanes, the arrest report said.
Toth, 42, was placed under arrest after he blew a 0.139% in a breathalyzer test, well above the legal limit of 0.08% for a driving under the influence charge, the report said.
'Hangover Atlanta' Act 3
Witherspoon's lawyer has already arranged for her to go through a pretrial intervention program to avoid getting a conviction on her record, an Atlanta Municipal Court spokesman said.
The program provides "alternative methods of resolving criminal matters other than prosecution," the court's website says. The judge set May 22 as the date for a hearing to check if she is complying with the program.
After that, the DVD with the arrest video could be released.
Witherspoon, whose earlier films include "Legally Blonde" and "Sweet Home Alabama," won a shelf full of awards for her performance as June Carter Cash in "Walk the Line," including a best actress Academy Award.
She was in Atlanta working on a movie titled "The Good Lie" when she was arrested.
