Some important lessons and grudge matches of the just-concluded government spending battle, and some faces to watch as we move into 2015 and 2016 -- those topics filled our trip around the "Inside Politics" table Sunday.
John King and other top political reporters empty out their notebooks each Sunday to reveal five things that will be in the headlines in the days, weeks and months ahead.
1. In losing, did Democrats lay down an important 2015 marker?
Liberals didn't like the $1.1 trillion spending bill that passed Saturday night for a host of reasons, most notably provisions that eased some restrictions on big banks and allowed big political contributors to give even more money.
So they protested -- loudly -- about the details and the process, including venting anger that President Obama was supporting the compromise. House Democratic leader Rep. Nancy Pelosi at one point said members were being "blackmailed."
In the end, liberals lost. But Julie Hirschfeld Davis of The New York Times reports Democrats are hoping the president takes notice, and perhaps grows more willing to use his veto pen in battles with the new Republican Congress in 2015.
"They were able to keep together enough Democrats to show that they could sustain a presidential veto, if indeed one is needed," explained Hirschfeld Davis.
"That was a big subtext of what they were doing this past week: to show that next year, 'You're gonna need us, so just remember that as you look at what's coming down the pipeline from Republicans, you can't take House Democrats for granted,'" continued Hirschfeld Davis, adding that Obama will need the Democrats to roll back some of the things the GOP wants to do to with his agenda.
2. Sorry senator, no perks for you
The Senate is a place of time-honored tradition. Well, it used to be.
Recent days have been full of accounts about how freshman Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas surprised his Republican leadership with his actions during the spending debate. In the old days, senators would at least give their leaders a heads up when they planned to make a point.
Not anymore.
And Ed O'Keefe of The Washington Post took us inside another example of the changing times. Democratic Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont, by virtue of his tenure, holds the largely ceremonial post of president pro tempore of the Senate.
In the old days, when control shifted to the other party, it was usually the case that some of that position's perks (like a car and driver) would be left in place. But GOP leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky has some issues with Leahy, and O'Keefe detailed a bit of inside maneuvering to make a point.
"The reason? Because Pat Leahy has stood in the way as a member of the Appropriations Committee of allowing even more changes to campaign finance laws that McConnell wanted to be added to the bill," said O'Keefe.
"So a little bit of petty fighting only over about $200,000 at the most, but it didn't happen -- so Leahy loses all the trappings of the office," O'Keefe added.
3. The junior senator from Virginia is worth watching
Tim Kaine is in the middle of some interesting debates these days, and is someone worth watching as both parties deal with the new dynamics of Congress and the run-up to the 2016 presidential campaign.
Kaine is the junior senator from Virginia, a former Democratic governor and one-time close ally of Obama. But he is at odds with the administration over its approach to ISIS, and Nia-Malika Henderson of The Washington Post told us that isn't the only big political debate where we should keep an eye on Kaine.
"It'll be interesting to see how he elevates his profile and builds his portfolio over these next months. He was a 'no' vote in terms of Harry Reid returning to leadership ... and in some ways, he's with the party on Keystone, things like that, but he's also been sort of critical of this move to anti-Wall Street," explained Henderson, adding that we should look for Kaine in 2016.
"Certainly, if Hillary runs, he might be on that short list for VP as he was for Obama in 2008."
4. Off to Iowa, for Costa and a Clinton rival looking to make his mark
Robert Costa of The Washington Post is off to Iowa in the days ahead, and not for some farm state holiday shopping. Or not just for that reason, anyway.
He's reporting on the latest visit of Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, an Independent who caucuses with the Democrats and is gearing up for the 2016 presidential nominating contest. Most Democrats think Hillary Clinton is the runaway favorite, and many liberals who like Sanders are openly wishing Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts will join the race.
But Costa smartly notes there is good reason to keep an eye on Sanders.
"I think Sanders looks at what's happening in the party with Sen. Warren, with his own efforts against banks, and he thinks yes, he's a long-shot contender, but because he's out there giving speeches, really engaging with a lot of the core Democratic base voters, it means he thinks he does have a shot," said Costa.
5. More signs Jeb Bush is running -- including tensions with Camp Romney
Jeb Bush is sending more signs he is likely to run for president, and they are causing a reaction that has many top Republicans buzzing.
The former Florida governor plans to release some 250,000 emails from his two terms in office and to write a book describing how the emails detail his political philosophy.
"He's doing what no other potential candidate is doing --  being completely transparent and accessible," a top Bush political adviser tells "Inside Politics."
Make no mistake, it's as much a message to Camp Clinton as it is fellow Republicans: The State Department has been slow to release documents from Clinton's days as secretary of state, and Bush is only too happy to draw a contrast.
But what has Republicans buzzing more than that is the repeated pot shots between Camps Bush and Romney in the past week or so, in reports about Bush's political maneuvering or about his venture capital work.
The question is whether this is genuine tension between the principals -- both GOP establishment favorites -- or whether this is more of a staff feud, as we still see from time to time between the 2008 Obama and Clinton teams.
"I don't think both run, and I think Mitt is the less likely," says a leading GOP activist with ties to both the Bush and Romney camps. "But this back and forth will go on a while."
Why?
"Remember Stuart and Murphy do not get along."
As in top Romney adviser Stuart Stevens and top Bush (and onetime Romney) confidant Mike Murphy.
