The man who shot officers inside a Detroit police station had a relative who is scheduled to be sentenced for double homicide Monday, said the city's police chief, who would not confirm that as the motive behind the attack.
"We can't speculate as to motive," Chief Ralph Godbee said in a news conference Monday. "There is nothing in this that makes sense at all."
Lamar Deshea Moore, 38, walked into a police precinct Sunday and "indiscriminately began firing," Godbee said. He was shot and killed by return gunfire from police, according to the chief.
Two of the four officers wounded in the shooting were hospitalized in stable condition Monday, Godbee said.  Cmdr. Brian Davis is recovering from a gunshot wound to back, and Sgt. Brian Anderson was grazed in the head, he said.
Sgt. Ray Saati also was grazed in the head. He and Sgt. Carrie Schultz have been treated and released from the hospital.  Schultz was shot in the chest, but was protected by a bulletproof vest, according to police.
The shooting has led to the reassessment of security measures by police officials. According to the chief, Mayor Dave Bing has committed to bringing in resources necessary to provide a safe environment, and interim measures will be put in place.
"We will do whatever is necessary to provide an environment for our officers that is safe," Godbee said, but he wouldn't specify any immediate changes. The chief said his office will be presenting the mayor with recommendations of security protocols that are "reflective of the reality that we have to live with every day."
Officers involved in the attack were praised for their bravery.
"Through it all, our officers maintained courageous calm," he said. "They returned fire, they took cover, they did all the things we train them to do under pressure."
Counseling will be provided for officers affected by the shootings, said the chief.
Meanwhile, efforts to find a motive for the shooting continues. Godbee said the police plan to speak with members of Moore's family and friends to see whether they can provide any helpful information.
