Four more U.S. military flights were headed to Cairo from Tunisia on Sunday, evacuating Egyptians fleeing the Libyan conflict, a U.S. official said.
One flight left early Sunday and three others will do so by Sunday afternoon, said Adam Lefringhouse, a defense attache at the U.S. Embassy in Tunis.
On Saturday, U.S. military planes carried out similar evacuations, returning passengers to Egypt.
There are a few thousand Egyptians left in Tunisia awaiting evacuation after more than 40,000 were taken home, said Firas Kayal, a spokesman for the United Nations refugee agency, on Saturday.
Many countries, such as India and China, put in place well-organized evacuation operations for their citizens. But others, including Egyptians and Bangladeshis, have been left to fend for themselves.
Kayal said Saturday more than 10,000 Bangladeshis are awaiting transport in Tunisia. Many of them have had to walk to the border because their money was stolen by soldiers and they could not pay for transportation costs. One man suffered a heart attack and died, aid officials confirmed.
On Sunday, the British government said it will provide emergency evacuation flights to repatriate 500 stranded Bangladeshis.
Three commercial charter planes will take the Bangladeshis home from Djerba airport later Sunday, the British government said.
"I have seen for myself the scale of the humanitarian situation on the Libyan border with Tunisia," said Andrew Mitchell, the International Development Secretary. "I vowed that we would do everything possible to give those stranded shelter and get them back home as quickly as possible."
Meanwhile, three people died and 14 were missing when they tried to get off a ship headed from Libya's capital, Tripoli, to Crete, the Greek Ministry for the Protection of Civilians said Sunday.
The ship was carrying about 1,280 passengers, mostly Bangladeshis.
"From the evidence gathered so far, it appears the passengers were trying to disembark the 'Ionian King' (Cypriot flag) using a rope," the ministry said in a statement.
The violence in Libya has generated an exodus out of the North African nation. Almost 200,000 people, a majority of them foreign workers, have fled Libya -- nearly 100,000 to Tunisia and a similar number to Egypt -- according to the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
The numbers of people entering Tunisia daily from Libya dropped to 1,800 Thursday and Friday and stood at 3,000 Saturday. Previously, they averaged 10,000 to 15,000 people.
Hovig Etyemezian, a field officer for the U.N. refugee agency, attributed the drop in part to fear and the manipulation of the flow of refugees by Libyan authorities.
"A lot of them were scared from leaving because of the fighting so they were staying in their houses," he said Saturday. "We fear the regime might be blocking refugees from the border."
The U.S. State Department said Saturday it would donate $3 million to the International Organization for Migration (IOM) as part of a joint U.S.-IOM partnership to help get home thousands of Egyptians and other nationals from Africa, South Asia and Southeast Asia.
CNN's Ivan Watson and Jomana Karadsheh contributed to this report
