Bayern Munich climbed to third place in the Bundesliga on Saturday with a 4-0 victory over Hoffenheim.
Luis Van Gaal's team started brightly and took the lead after two minutes through Germany striker Mario Gomez, who scored his 17th league goal of the season.
Gomez's compatriot Thomas Muller doubled the reigning champions' advantage with only 15 minutes gone when he fired home from inside the box after a pass from Franck Ribery.
Dutch winger Arjen Robben netted a brace in only his fourth game of the season to seal a comprehensive victory.
The win sees the 2010 double winners move ahead of Mainz and Hannover who are both in action on Sunday.
League-leaders Borussia Dortmund were held to a 1-1 draw away to Kaiserslautern after having defender Neven Subotic sent off.
Jurgen Klopp's team looked to have secured an away victory when Sven Bender put them ahead with nine minutes left, but Subotic picked up his second yellow card four minutes later.
With the match entering stoppage time, striker Jan Moravek fired home from the edge of the penalty area to rescue a point for Kaiserlautern.
Despite the setback, Dortmund still hold a 10-point lead over second-placed Bayer Leverkusen and are still well-placed to secure their first league championship since 2002.
Leverkusen picked up three points after they earned a 3-0 victory away to Eintracht Frankfurt.
German international Simon Rolfes put Leverkusen ahead in the ninth minute when he fired a left-footed shot past Frankfurt goalkeeper Ola Nikolov.
Rolfes' center-midfield partner Renato Augusto made it 2-0 after 32 minutes, before substitute Hanno Balitsch made sure of the win with a third for Jupp Heynckes' side in the 81st minute.
Mid-table Frankfurt have now failed to find the net in their last five Bundesliga outings.
Hamburg moved up to seventh position in the table with a 1-0 win over struggling Wolfsburg.
A goal from Croatia forward Mladen Petric was enough to defeat Wolfsburg, who recently sacked English coach Steve McLaren.
Nuremberg remain in ninth place after a convincing 4-1 defeat at relegation-threatened Stuttgart.
Goals from Timmy Simons and Julian Schieber gave Nuremberg a two-goal lead inside 29 minutes, before Patrick Funk reduced Stuttgart's arrears on the stroke of half time.
Jens Hegeler and Mehmet Ekici made sure of victory for Nuremberg in the second half to leave Stuttgart languishing in 17th position.
Elsewhere, Jefferson Farfan's strike was enough to secure a 1-0 success for Schalke over Freiburg and FC St Pauli scored a 3-1 win at home to Borussia Monchengladbach.
