(Rolling Stone)  -- In the new issue of Rolling Stone -- on stands and online in the digital archives on February 18 (subscription required) -- Justin Bieber takes Rolling Stone contributing editor Vanessa Grigoriadis for a spin around Atlanta in his Range Rover.
Along the way they discuss girls, politics, music, Will Ferrell movies -- and sex.
Rolling Stone: Photos -- the tao of Bieber
"I don't think you should have sex with anyone unless you love them," Bieber says.
When asked if he believes in abstinence until marriage, Bieber -- who is reportedly dating fellow teen star Selena Gomez -- seems wary: "I think you should just wait for the person you're...in love with."
Rolling Stone: Justin Bieber's cover shoot with Terry Richardson
Near the end of their time together Grigoriadis caught a glimpse of Bieber's desktop image on his laptop: It was him and Gomez against an orange sunset.
Bieber quickly closed the computer when he noticed that Grigoriadis had seen the picture.
Rolling Stone: Justin Bieber's world
Other highlights from the story:
The Canadian-born Bieber never plans on becoming an American citizen.
"You guys are evil," he says with a laugh. "Canada's the best country in the world. We go to the doctor and we don't need to worry about paying him, but here, your whole life, you're broke because of medical bills. My bodyguard's baby was premature, and now he has to pay for it. In Canada, if your baby's premature, he stays in the hospital as long as he needs to, and then you go home."
Rolling Stone: Contest -- you choose the cover
He isn't sure what political party he'd support if he was old enough to vote.
"I'm not sure about the parties," Bieber says. "But whatever they have in Korea, that's bad." He does have a solid opinion on abortion.
"I really don't believe in abortion," Bieber says. "It's like killing a baby?" How about in cases of rape?
"Um. Well, I think that's really sad, but everything happens for a reason. I guess I haven't been in that position, so I wouldn't be able to judge that."
Rolling Stone: Photos -- random notes
Bieber's voice began to change on his last tour.
He's now working with a vocal coach, which involves doing 20 push-ups before before a session to warm up his chest.
"He's got a nice tone to his voice now," says his vocal coach Jan Smith. "It's a good texture, but it doesn't sound like what his fans think he sounds like. He'll get four octaves eventually. He's still young."
Due to an editing error, this online news item originally included an incomplete quote from our Justin Bieber cover story. The full quote, which appears in full in our March 3 issue reads: "Um. Well, I think that's really sad, but everything happens for a reason. I don't know how that would be a reason. I guess I haven't been in that position, so I wouldn't be able to judge that."
Copyright © 2011 Rolling Stone.
