(CNN Student News) -- May 15, 2014
Today on CNN Student News: Turkey mourns the loss of hundreds in a mining accident, MERS makes its way to more countries, and an emotional tour through a museum recalls a day that changed a nation. We'll also get you up to speed on how a twin managed to help her injured sister and keep their race on track.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What credible online sources might you consult to learn more about the possible outbreak of a disease?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. carbon monoxide
2. MERS
3. September 11, 2001
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Where is the nation of Turkey located? Why is Turkey a nation in mourning? How many miners have been saved so far? Why are hopes fading for rescuing more people?
2. What is MERS? Where was this virus first confirmed? How is the disease spread? What common illness is in the same disease family as MERS? What is the mortality rate for MERS? What are its symptoms? Where do experts think this virus may have come from? What does the CDC advise people to do to protect themselves from MERS?
3. When is Patriot Day? What event is remembered on this day? In what year did the attacks happen? Where is the 9/11 Memorial Museum located? What are some of museum's artifacts and reminders of the tragedy? What is located behind the blue art installation? Why is this an especially emotional place? Why are only family members allowed behind this wall? What is in the reflection room?
4. What is the focus of the exhibit that has become the biggest source of controversy at the museum? Why are some criticizing the film in this exhibit? How does the museum's president respond to those who think al Qaeda should not be mentioned in the museum? What is at the end of the museum? What kinds of messages are on the Last Column?
5. What happened to Chloe Gruenke as she was running in a recent state track meet? What did her sister Claire do to help her? Why did Claire say she did this?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you know about the attacks of September 11, 2001? Do you have any memories of that day? Have you talked with relatives or friends who remember it? What emotions are associated with that date? What emotions do you think visitors might experience as they tour the 9/11 Museum?
2. What is your opinion of including al Qaeda in the 9/11 Museum? Do you agree or disagree with the museum president's rationale for including the terrorist group as an exhibit? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
