Edin Dzeko is a man on a mission -- and it's not just about winning the World Cup.
Bosnia's qualification for Brazil 2014 created joyous scenes on the streets of Sarajevo as 50,000 people turned out to celebrate last October.
Its players have become heroes and will travel to South America hoping to do the nation proud on its debut on the world's biggest football stage.
But any thoughts of World Cup success have been placed on hold following the worst floods in the Balkans region for over 120 years.
"I think it's important for the people, for the world, to know this is not a game," Dzeko, who has appealed for help on Twitter, told CNN.
"This is something serious. So many people have lost their lives, lost their homes.
"They were trying to build something for themselves and for their kids over the past 20 years and they've lost it just like that."
The floods have wreaked destruction on parts of Croatia and Serbia too, while Bosnian president Bakir Izetbegovic confirmed to CNN that the flooding has left billions of dollars worth of damage.
At least 13 people have died during the natural disaster in Bosnia, while there have been deaths in Serbia too.
"I want the whole world, not just the people in Bosnia and Serbia, to know," added Dzeko, who plays for English Premier League champion Manchester City.
"If anyone could help Bosnia and Serbia in any way, it would be amazing."
While Dzeko has taken to social media to ask for help, humanitarian organizations have begun to arrive.
The Red Cross estimates around 50,000 people throughout the country are without safe water and electricity, while it claims "many are living in unsafe and insanitary conditions created by the floods."
A state of emergency has been declared in 14 municipalities, according to the Red Cross, while landslides have caused havoc.
The World Food Program has already announced plans to send enough aid to help 150,000 in Bosnia's most-affected areas.
One of the most damaged sectors of Bosnian trade is its crop production, and the recent floods have left farms and agricultural land decimated.
