(CNN)  -- American Lindsey Vonn suffered a pre-Olympic scare after taking a crashing fall in the World Cup giant slalom in Lienz on Monday.
Vonn, who is a medal favorite in several disciplines for February's Winter Games in Vancouver, damaged her left arm after sliding out on the first run, losing her balance on a bump after a sharp left turn before thumping into a gate.
She received lengthy medical treatment on the slope with initial fears that she had broken the arm.
But scans at a local hospital showed only severe bruising and the 25-year-old may even compete in Tuesday's slalom at the same venue, U.S. team medical director Richard Quincy told reporters.
Vonn's arm has been placed in a splint to speed recovery and she was said to have been in considerable pain.
"Hurting my arm is way better than hurting one of my legs," Vonn was quoted on her personal Web site www.lindseyvonn.com.
Her crash overshadowed a fine victory for Kathrin Hoelzl of Germany, who led after the first run and posted a combined time of  two minutes, 16.61 seconds with Manuela Moelgg of Italy just 0.05 seconds back in second.
Taina Barioz of France occupied the final podium position.
Vonn retains her lead in the overall standings with 581 points ahead of second-placed Maria Reisch, who appeared distracted by her friend's crash and also skied out first time down.
The German is 50 points adrift as Vonn looks to defend her overall crown.
Vonn suffered an unusual injury setback at the world championships in Val d'Isere, France earlier this year.
Celebrating a medal success, she sliced her thumb open on a champagne bottle and competed for the rest of the season with heavy strapping.
Vonn's appearance in Vancouver is being heavily plugged by sponsors and television rights holders, but she is still seeking her first Olympic medal after missing out in Salt Lake City and Turin.
Austria's Kathrin Zettel, who led the GS standings going into the race but was overtaken by Hoelzl, was 0.95 seconds behind the German after skiing off-course in her first run and finished fifth.
Hoelzl takes the lead in the giant slalom discipline standings, leapfrogging Kathrin Zettel of Austria, who finished fifth.
