Not divulging why she left, a Georgia sheriff said Thursday that a mother of five who disappeared last week is safe, healthy and not about to face criminal charges.
"The case of Wazineh Suleiman is closed," Bartow County Sheriff Clark Millsap told reporters in Cartersville. "She is in a safe location, she is alive, she is well."
Suleiman hadn't been heard from since last Friday night, when her husband arrived home to find the couple's children, ages 6 through 12 alone, and no sign of his wife since she'd left him uncharacteristically profane text messages.
Millsap on Thursday refused to explain why Suleiman may have gone missing, saying only that "why she left is her business, and not ours."
"Our main concern was to make sure that she was safe and we have discovered that," the sheriff said. "Anything that is going on at her residence is her business and her husband's business."
Since being found, the woman told authorities that she does not want "to let anyone know where she is" -- a request Millsap said law enforcement officers will respect. Police also have not offered details about how or where she was found.
The sheriff said that no criminal charges will be filed against anyone in the case.
Earlier Thursday, her father, Basem Jaber, said only that Suleiman was "safe" and with members of the sheriff's department. He said he did not know why his daughter went missing, saying only he was very happy she'd been found and he expected to see her for the first time later Thursday afternoon.
"She's good, she's in good condition," he told reporters Thursday outside the Bartow County sheriff's office.
Suleiman's husband, Abed Suleiman, has said that, after attending Friday prayers, he brought home four pizzas at his wife's request and the family ate dinner together. He then set out for Kentucky on a turkey hunting trip with a male friend.
When Abed Suleiman and his friend were about an hour from home they were informed that turkey hunting season was to begin the following weekend. They immediately turned around, the husband said.
The friend corroborated the story and receipts back it up, Millsap has said.
Wazineh Suleiman was last heard from that night, according to her husband of 14 years, in the form of profanity-laced text messages that she sent him.
"It's over and I'm throwing the phone out the window,'' read one of the messages. Others contained curses, including the f-word, he said,
"She would never, ever send me a text message or use that word in front of me or to me at all," Abed Suleiman said Wednesday on HLN's "Nancy Grace."
"That's the way she is,'' he said. His 30-year-old wife is a kindergarten teacher's assistant.
When he arrived home last Friday around 9 p.m., Abed Suleiman found his five children home alone, something he said had never happened before at night.
His oldest child told him their mother had been gone 10 minutes.
The husband said he thought Wazineh Suleiman had gone to a Walmart to rent a video. But police say there is no evidence she ever made it to Walmart.
Later that evening, Abed Suleiman called police to report her missing.
Until Thursday, the biggest development in the case came Tuesday, when the family's 2004 Nissan Armada was found in an empty parking lot near Interstate 75.
Abed Suleiman, a pharmacist, said Wednesday that his wife's credit cards hadn't been used since she went missing.
The couple filed for bankruptcy in August. Abed Suleiman said, "I have a good income and I bought two very expensive properties in south Florida" that they ended up being unable to afford.
HLN's Philip Rosenbaum contributed to this report.
Watch Nancy Grace Monday through Sunday starting at 8 p.m. ET on HLN. For the latest from Nancy Grace click here.
