Norwegian Aksel Lund Svindal continued his domination of the men's alpine skiing season with a convincing victory Friday in the men's World Cup super-G at Val Gardena.
Svindal, bidding to add to his overall World Cup titles in 2007 and 2009, finished well clear of home pair Matteo Marsaglia and Werner Heel.
It was his 19th career World Cup win as he recorded a time 1.07 seconds faster than Marsaglia with Heel a further 0.05 seconds further back.
The 29-year-old was adding to super-G and downhill successes at Lake Louise last month.
"Oh yeah!!! Good times in Val Gardena. Podium with two local guys. Couldn't let the Italians have all the fun," he tweeted after his latest triumph.
"Racing on the #FisAlpine World Cup tour is a lot of fun at the moment!!!"
Marsaglia told AFP that the reigning Olympic super-G champion was in a different class.
"Aksel Lund Svindal is from another planet but I consider myself the best of the terrestrials. He made mistakes but despite that he is still a second in front of everyone," he was quoted.
Meanwhile in the women's downhill at Val d'Isere, pre-race favorite Lindsey Vonn suffered a spectacular crash early in her run at the French resort.
Olympic downhill champion Vonn flew into the safety netting after the third gate, but was able to ski down to the finish after the incident.
"She just got a little bit inside and got a little bit hooked up into the soft snow and unfortunately was into the fence," U.S women's ski coach Chip White told CNN.
"It's really unfortunate that this happened, I'm just thankful that she's OK and that tomorrow's another day and there's a few more races to happen"
Switzerland's Lara Gut, who took silver behind Vonn at the same venue in the 2009 world championships, took advantage to win her third World Cup race.
She edged out American Leanne Smith and fellow Swiss Nadja Kamer. The 25-year-old Smith was on the podium for the first time.
Vonn still leads the overall World Cup downhill standings after winning the first two races of the season.
Editors note: Aksel Lund Svindal will be a regular contributor to CNN's Alpine Edge section throughout the World Cup season.
