(The Frisky) -- So what did you do this weekend? Chances are, nothing as cool as the folks who traveled to Astoria, Oregon, to commemorate 25 years of "The Goonies" at the Never Say Die Anniversary Celebration.
A quarter century ago, to the day, on June 7th, "The Goonies" opened in movie theaters across the country. And while it came in behind "Rambo II," released on the same opening weekend, the tale of a group of teens who embark on a treasure hunt to raise the money to save their homes -- all while being chased by a crazed crime family -- went on to become a cult classic.
To celebrate the movie, fans at the festival ran a 5K race called the "Truffle Shuffle." They chatted with cast members -- including Sean Astin and director Richard Donner -- at a dinner where the main dish was Fratelli meatballs. And they were treated to a "Goonies"-themed concert starring none other than Truth Movement, the band of "Goonie" actor Corey Feldman.
The Frisky: Madonna's 13-year-old daughter becomes a fashion model
Wish you had gone? Me too. And here are 10 reasons why we still love "The Goonies," even after a quarter of a century:
1. "The Goonies" is a movie about outcasts. (Well, with the exception of cheerleader Andy who becomes an honorary member of the crew.) And you know how much we love nerd movies and TV shows.
2. One word: Chunk. Played by Jeff Cohen, Chunk was hilarious as the flick's comic relief. When the Fratellis demand that he tell them everything, he begins one of the best monologues in 80s movie history. "In third grade, I cheated on my history exam. In fourth grade, I stole my uncle Max's toupee and I glued it on my face when I was Moses in my Hebrew School play. In fifth grade, I knocked my sister Edie down the stairs and blamed it on the dog." You'll be happy to know that Jeff is no longer chunky and is now a hot, well-renowned entertainment lawyer in Beverly Hills.
The Frisky: 6 celeb couples tell where they went on their first date
3. "The Goonies" was the brainchild of Steven Spielberg. It was conceived during what I like to think of as his golden era -- nestled in between "E.T." and "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom."
4. It's hard to believe but true -- Corey Haim and Corey Feldman first met because of "The Goonies." "It was in the waiting room -- we were auditioning for the same role," says Corey Feldman, who got the part of Mouth in the flick. Though Corey Haim was frozen out of this one, they'd become one of the iconic duos of the 80s.
The Frisky: A "Real Housewife of NJ" is $11 million in debt --how?
5. "The Goonies" had an awesome soundtrack, with tracks from 80s greats like The Bangles and REO Speedwagon. But the classic track of the movie was Cyndi Lauper's "Good Enough" -- the 12-minute, two-part video starred not only the cast but 80s wrestling favorites like Andre the Giant.
6. We know Josh Brolin as the hottie from "No Country For Old Men" and the tragic bad guy in "Milk." But his first role? Brandon "Brand" Walsh -- the Goonie who's able to win the heart of cool girl Andy.
The Frisky: The MTV Movie Awards was one big shillfest
7. I saw "The Goonies" in the movie theater, and will never forget the scene where the group makes it through the maze of caverns and puzzles and ends in the cave where they first see One-Eyed Willie's ship. It was breathtaking. Apparently, for the stars of the movie, too. Director Richard Donner didn't let them see the fully re-created ship because he wanted the authentic emotion of awe on film. And he got it.
8. "The Goonies" had a good message -- mainly that kids could take action and make real change in their community. Sure, they most likely wouldn't do it by finding a buried treasure from the 17th century, but still.
The Frisky: The 10 lamest celebrity publicity stunts
9. Oh, and I almost forgot about Data. How do you not love a pre-teen who creates his own inventions like the "Wings of Flight," the "Pincers of Peril," and the "Bully Blinder"? I always wanted him and MacGyver to have a showdown.
10. "The Goonies" was thrilling the first time you saw it. But thanks to TBS playing it, oh, every weekend, we've gotten to see it 90,000 times and get all the nuances. While rumors have circulated for years that "Goonies 2" is in the works, it just doesn't look like it's going to happen. Luckily, though, Donner is currently working on a Broadway version of the story.
TM & © 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
