(CNN Student News) -- June 2, 2014
Leading off this Monday edition of CNN Student News: a prisoner exchange involving a U.S. soldier held captive for five years. We'll also cover the resignation of a U.S. Cabinet member, and we'll tell you what spelled out victory for two very astute competitors at a national bee.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How much of reality TV do you think is real?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. the Pentagon
2. Scripps National Spelling Bee
3. reality TV
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Who is Bowe Bergdahl? Who was holding him captive? For how long was he held? For whom was he exchanged? Who was involved in the exchange on each side? What are some Republicans saying about the Obama administration's actions in this exchange? Why? How has Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel responded?
2. What federal agency was led by Eric Shinseki? What scandal led him to resign? What did Shinseki say about the problems at the department?
3. What was unusual about the finish of this year's Scripps National Spelling Bee? Who won? What prizes were awarded to the winners?
4. According to the report: What is the goal of Mars One? By what date do the founders want this to happen? What does astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson have to say about the mission? How many people applied for the mission? What reasons do some who have made the cut offer for wanting to go on a one-way trip to Mars? What do NASA astronauts Scott and Mark Kelly have to say about the mission?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion of the prisoner exchange involving Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl? How would you counter the arguments mentioned in the video that support or criticize this exchange?
2. What were some of the words in this year's Scripps National Spelling Bee? Have you ever heard of any of these words? Do you take any steps to expand your vocabulary? Explain. What are some things you could do if you wanted to improve your abilities with words?
3. What does Neil deGrasse Tyson mean when he talks about Mars as a "hostile environment"? What would be some of the most basic challenges to sustaining human life on Mars? How might the organizers of Mars One aim to address these concerns? Do you think humans will have the ability to sustain themselves on Mars by the year 2025? Explain.
4. Would you want to take a trip to another planet? What if that trip were one-way: Would you be interested? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
