CNN International was named News Channel of the Year at the Royal Television Society Awards in London late Wednesday, beating off competition from the BBC and Sky News.
The network's treatment of stories over the past year -- including the intensifying conflict in the Middle East, elections in the U.S., Egypt, Russia and France, the transition of power in China, economic turmoil in Europe, riots at South African mines, extreme weather, the London 2012 Olympic Games and the Diamond Jubilee celebrations -- won the votes of the jury at the UK-based media society.
Tony Maddox, Executive Vice President of CNN International, said: "The determination and fearlessness of our reporting is an immense source of pride for me, and this award is testament to those qualities.
"To be recognized by our peers in this way is also a great honor. Professional journalism has a more important role than ever in today's changing world, and the succinct, powerful coverage we've delivered underlines that value to our audiences."
CNN International was also nominated for Best News Coverage -- International, for its coverage of the Syrian Uprising. The work of Arwa Damon and her team, smuggling their way into the besieged city of Homs to deliver a picture of the acute suffering endured by those trapped there, and Nick Paton Walsh's exposure of the destructive power of the Assad regime in Aleppo were among the many standout stories CNN brought to world's attention.
Meanwhile Pedro Pinto received a nomination for Specialist Journalist of the Year, following a series of exclusive interviews with the likes of Jose Mourinho, Rafael Nadal and Cristiano Ronaldo, as well as his work exploring racism in football -- including an extraordinary one-on-one with FIFA president Sepp Blatter.
The Royal Television Society (RTS) is Britain's leading forum for television and related media. The RTS Television Journalism Awards celebrate creative and excellent journalism in UK news and current affairs, both by organizations broadcasting in the UK and by companies that supply UK news broadcasters.
CNN's win at the RTS awards is the latest honor in a year which also saw the network recognized for its outstanding storytelling efforts at the Foreign Press Association Media awards, where the network won three accolades, as well as at the recent EPPY awards where CNN Digital scooped four categories.
