She's one of Great Britain's brightest medal hopes ahead of the London Olympics but Jessica Ennis isn't relying on home comforts to help land her a maiden Games gold.
The heptathlete has had numerous chances to visit the newly-built Olympic Stadium in the east of the English capital and steal a march on her rivals.
But the 25-year-old insists she wants her first trip to the arena to come when she takes to the track to make up for the disappointment of missing the 2008 Games in Beijing.
"There's been lots of opportunities to go, I've seen pictures of it and it looks fantastic, but for me I don't want to become overly familiar with it," she told CNN World Sport.
"I want to go down to the stadium when it's games time and for me to step into the stadium with a big crowd and it will all be fresh and new and allow that adrenaline to pump through me.
"Hopefully that will get into my performance and help me perform that little bit better."
Ennis broke through at the 2009 World Championships when she claimed gold in Berlin but last year in Daegu, South Korea, she relinquished her title to Russia's Tatyana Chernova.
More disappointment followed at March's World Indoor Championships in Istanbul, where she again was pipped to gold, this time in the pentathlon, by Ukrainian Nataliya Dobrynska.
But she says both experiences have helped her to understand exactly what will be required to win gold in front of her home fans in August.
"Obviously I was disappointed with Daegu and Istanbul, getting so close to those gold medals but not quite managing to keep hold of them was disappointing," she said.
"But I learned a lot from those championships and learned a lot about the areas I need to work on and improve.
"If someone had said to me five years ago that I'd have three gold medals at major championships and two silver medals then I'd have grabbed that with both hands.
"The thing I've got to take from these past couple of championships is that I've performed consistently over the past few years and always been in the medals."
Too young to compete at Athens in 2004, Ennis was on course to make her Olympic debut in China in 2008, until a foot injury forced her to withdraw.
Given the impact she has made on UK athletics, and the high-profile she has enjoyed since Berlin, many people forget that this will be her first ever Games.
But she says although her battle with Chernova and Dobrynska is bound to be intense, she is determined to approach the Olympics as she would any other event.
"Having the disappointment from Beijing it's obviously going to be a big year for me," she said.
"But I've done lots of championships before, I've had the experience there and I've competed against these girls on numerous occasions so I'm just treating it as any other championship."
