Lindsey Vonn will have to wait a little longer to equal the all-time record for World Cup race wins.
Fresh from her triumph in Saturday's downhill at Val d'Isere, the American star had high hopes in the super-G but crashed out after hitting a gate mid-course.
It left the way clear for Elisabeth Goergl to lead an Austrian one-two ahead of Olympic champion Anna Fenninger -- with World Cup overall points leader Tina Maze in third.
For Vonn, who needs one more victory to tie the great Annemarie Moser Proll's record of 62 wins, there was disappointment but relief that she had escaped unscathed.
She has only just returned to the alpine skiing circuit after right knee surgery which saw her miss the Olympic Games in Sochi earlier this year.
"I was a little tired," Vonn admitted as she reflected on her mishap.
"Yesterday was a great day, but a very long day and it takes a lot of energy. I skied pretty well on the top section and I was at my limit and I missed a little bit of elevation and I wasn't able to make the gate," she told the official website of the International Skiing Federation (FIS).
"The positive thing is that my knees are good and I'm still going home for Christmas with a big smile."
Goergl was also smiling after a superb display on the OK piste at the French resort, clocking a time of one minute 25.42 seconds.
It left her just 0.05 faster than Fenninger, with Slovenia's ever-consistent Maze a further 0.08 seconds adrift.
"The course today was really tricky and I kind of like that. I had everything clear in my head and my coaches reported that there were some weird turns and what I had to do.
"It was great team work and it turned out fine," she said.
It was her seventh World Cup win, her third in super-G, denying Fenninger, who had won at Solden earlier this year.
Maze holds a 249-point lead in the overall standings ahead of Fenninger, with Vonn in third, 344 points adrift.
Sunday also saw another giant slalom win for Austria's Marcel Hirscher, who was well clear of his rivals at Alta Badia in Italy.
The triple overall World Cup champion finished 1.45 seconds clear of Olympic champion Ted Ligety of the United States, with Thomas Fanara of France completing the podium.
Hirscher also went one clear of his legendary compatriot Franz Klammer for number of World Cup wins, racking up his 27th and fourth of the season, three coming in giant slalom.
The 25-year-old also closed up on Norway's Kjetil Jansrud in this season's battle for the overall crown.
Speed discipline specialist Jansrud won the downhill at Val Gardena Saturday, but Hirscher can overtake him in the standings with a strong showing in Monday's slalom on the floodlit Madonna di Campillo slope.
"This is my best ever start to a World Cup season," Hirscher said.
"But I still have Kjetil in front of me. He skies incredibly well in speed races, he never makes a mistake."
