World champion Sebastian Vettel began his 2011 Formula One defense in emphatic style on Sunday, leading the season-opening Australian Grand Prix in Melbourne from start to finish.
McLaren's 2008 world champion Lewis Hamilton did well to finish second after damaging his car on the first corner while Lotus Renault's Russian driver Vitaly Petrov achieved his first podium finish by claiming an impressive third place.
Fernando Alonso finished fourth for Ferrari, with Mark Webber in his Red Bull in fifth place. Jenson Button came sixth in his McLaren.
Formula One teams, drivers and circuits
Sauber pair Sergio Perez and Kamui Kobayashi finished a creditable seventh and eighth respectively, but they were later disqualified by race stewards for technical infringements to do with their rear wings.
This meant Ferrari's Felipe Massa moved up to seventh place with the Toro Rosso of Sebastien Buemi taking eighth place.
The 23-year-old Vettel, who was claiming his 11th victory in just his 63rd grand prix, told the official Formula One website: "I'm very pleased, it was a very good weekend and I had a very nice car to sit in this afternoon.
"It was a good race and towards the end things calmed down a bit as Lewis didn't push as hard."
The German continued: "The start was crucial and being on the clean side I had a very good getaway. We learned a lot of things today and it feels good coming here after a long winter and setting the pace."
Hamilton was satisfied with his runner-up spot, saying: "We can take this and be very proud of ourselves. A week or two ago we weren't expecting to be in the top five, so to come to second is a great achievement."
Meanwhile, a stunned Petrov told the after-race press conference:  "To be honest I can't believe I'm sitting with these guys. We didn't know where we were coming into the season, but in practice and qualifying we were good.
"In the race the team did everything perfectly. We can be very proud of what we have achieved today."
However, it proved a disastrous day for the Mercedes pair of Michael Schumacher and Nico Rosberg, who had both retired by the 22nd lap of the race.
