A former cast member of "Ice Road Truckers: Deadliest Roads" allegedly kidnapped a prostitute in Las Vegas, a police report said.
Tim Zickuhr, who appeared as a driver in episodes of the History Channel show in 2011, was arrested on kidnapping, extortion and coercion charges by Las Vegas police on December 19. The matter is just coming to light publicly this week.
The arrest report describes a bizarre dispute between Zickuhr, 35, and Lisa Cadeau, described as a prostitute who works under the name "Snow White."
It began after he allowed her to use his bank ATM card to withdraw cash to pay for sexual services, the report said. He allegedly became upset later when he suspected she took more money than she was supposed to get out of the account, the document showed.
"Cadeau was then locked inside a closet tied up and was instructed to give 'Tim' someone's phone number who could bring him the money that she owed him," the police report said.
Zickuhr did not realize the number was to a police cell phone given to her by an officer she knew as a "citizen source."
The officer wrote that when he answered the phone, Zickuhr allegedy "told me that he currently had 'Snow White' and if I didn't bring $1,000 to a phone booth at Lynwood/Sahara he was going to go to Mexico to kill 'Snow White.'"
Several other calls followed before the officer found Zickuhr and Cadeau behind a Las Vegas casino, where he arrested Zickuhr, the report said.
Zickuhr told the officer that "his plan was to place Cadeau on (Craigslist) and attempt to make money off her performing sexual acts," the report said.
"I wasn't going to let her go till she gave me what she owed me," the report quotes Zickuhr as saying.
Zickuhr's lawyer Roy Nelson told CNN Tuesday that his client "maintains his innocence to any criminal wrongdoing."
"It is our understanding that the alleged victim has major credibility issues, and we are currently investigating the circumstances surrounding the events," Nelson said. "These are certainly serious allegations but there are just as serious questions as to this witness' credibility and her version of events."
A History Channel spokesman had no comment when asked by CNN for a response to the incident.
It was noted, however, that Zickuhr had not appeared on the show since its second season.
Zickuhr's due in court in May.
CNN's Joan Yeam contributed to this report.
