Liverpool announced on Thursday that they have reached an agreement with Dutch club Heerenveen for the transfer of winger Oussama Assaidi, on a busy day of transfer activity in the Premier League.
With the new season due to start on Saturday, and just over two weeks left of the transfer window, several of clubs have moved to finalise transfers in time for the first fixtures.
Assaidi's move is subject to a medical, but the Morocco international's transfer could still be completed in time for him to play against West Bromwich Albion on Saturday.
Elsewhere, former Manchester United, Fulham and Everton striker Louis Saha has signed a for Sunderland.
The 34 year old striker left Tottenham Hotspur at the end of last season, and has agreed a one year deal with Martin O'Neill's side.
"Louis is a striker whose abilities have been proven at the very highest level and he brings with him a raft of experience of top flight football," O'Neill told the club's website.
"I'm delighted we have been able to complete a deal ahead of our first match of the season."
Sunderland's local rivals Newcastle United also added to their side on Thursday, finally completing the transfer of Ajax midfielder Vurnon Anita.
The 23 year old has signed a five year deal to become the club's fourth signing of the summer.
Newcastle manager Alan Pardew described Anita as "exceptionally talented" and said he hoped the young players "best years" will be at Newcastle.
"He has strengthened us. You need three top class central midfield players, which we now have. That is mainly where he will play," said Pardew on the official website.
The Dutch midfielder was delighted with the move.
"I won almost everything in Holland so the step was not difficult to make. Now I think we can also win trophies with Newcastle and it's time to do that.," Anita told the club's website.
"In the Premier League especially, every game is tough so it can help me also to grow in my football skills."
"I talked to the manager and the coach and they know that I want to play in a defensive midfield place and that's why they brought me here," he added.
