Samuel Eto'o netted a superb hat-trick to help holders Inter Milan thrash Werder Bremen 4-0 in Champions League Group A.
The Cameroon striker opened the scoring in the 21st minute when he slipped the ball under goalkeeper Tim Wiese after Esteban Cambiasso robbed the ball off Daniel Jensen.
Eto'o added his second when converting a lofted pass from Lucio and completed his treble nine minutes from time when out-pacing the Werder defence after latching onto Wes Sneijder's pass, and rounding Wiese.
And Eto'o also had a hand in the goal that put Inter 3-0 ahead, with his pinpoint pass finding Sneijder -- and the Dutchman fired into the top corner.
Inter are level on four points with Tottenham at the top of the table, after the London club beat Dutch champions FC Twente 4-1 in a remarkable match that saw Spurs awarded three penalties and also have Rafael van der Vaart sent off after collecting two yellow cards.
Van der Vaart wasted a chance to put the hosts ahead when goalkeeper Nikolay Mihaylov saved his spot-kick after Peter Wisgerhof fouled Peter Crouch in the area.
But Van der Vaart made amends soon after the break when converting on the turn a Crouch knock-down.
Spurs soon made it 2-0 when Roman Pavlyuchenko scored from the penalty spot after a foul on Gareth Bale.
Twente pulled a goal back through substitute Nacer Chadli before van der Vaart was given his marching orders for lunging in on Roberto Rosales.
But Tottenham restored their two-goal advantage when Pavlyuchenko netted another spot-kick after a handball in the area and Bale added a late fourth to put the icing on the cake.
Meanwhile, in Group B, French giants Lyon -- who are trailing in 18th place in their domestic league after just one victory all season -- claimed a morale- boosting 3-1 win at Israeli side Hapoel Tel Aviv.
Michel Bastos scored twice with Miralem Pjanic also on target as Lyon top the table with a maximum six points.
Schalke are second in the table after Jefferson Farfan and Klaas-Jan Huntelaar earned the German side a 2-0 win over Benfica in the other group match.
