World champion Jorge Lorenzo has told CNN that he has a difficult relationship with his former teammate, motorcycling legend Valentino Rossi.
The Spaniard usurped the seven-time MotoGP titleholder last season, setting records for most wins and points scored as Rossi struggled to recover after a series of injuries.
The 23-year-old Lorenzo accused Rossi, now 32, of dangerous riding in Japan last October before clinching his maiden crown in Malaysia in the following race.
The Italian subsequently ended his seven-year stint at Yamaha, where he and Lorenzo had been awkward stablemates since 2008, and joined Ducati.
"I think it was a problem of character," Lorenzo told CNN World Sport's Pedro Pinto in an exclusive interview in Barcelona. "We had a very tough character, really strong. We just didn't ... have a feeling.
"Look, I don't have any personal problems with the riders I'm competing with. I believe you can be friends with a rider while you are fighting for the championship. I don't have any friends, but I believe in it!"
Despite their problems, Lorenzo said he did not expect Rossi to join Ducati, replacing Casey Stoner -- who moved to the Italian's first team Honda.
Ducati have been off the pace since Stoner won his and the team's first and only world title in 2007.
"I was a bit surprised, because it's a big challenge for him, but I also would think if I was in his position, it could be a really interesting challenge, no?" Lorenzo said.
"Because Ducati being an Italian brand ... it's really difficult, but for them it's a nice idea."
The Mallorcan became only the second Spaniard to win the world title in motorcycling's elite class, but admits he was a little underwhelmed at the time.
"This happens always in life. When you like a girl, you have obsession for the girl, you want to be with this girl and when you finally are with this girl, you think 'That is it? Not anything more?'
"With the world title, it's the same. You imagine, you dream a lot about this; when it happens, then you think, 'It's only this?' But then, after a few hours, when you are more calm, when you are alone, with your friends, with the people who are more close to you, then you start to realize how important the thing you got is."
Stoner strikes first blow of 2011 MotoGP season
Lorenzo was named Spain's sportsman of the year and later met King Juan Carlos, but is still coming to terms with his newfound celebrity status.
"When I wasn't famous, I wanted to achieve that because it's cool, no? But when it happens, every time you go to a restaurant you have to stop your meal to take a picture. When you are going to a discotheque it's impossible to dance, it's impossible to be with your friends because every meter you walk you have to take a picture!"
Lorenzo goes into this weekend's Spanish Grand Prix having finished second behind Stoner at the season-opening race in Qatar, but said he feels no pressure to emulate last year's achievements.
"I really don't think about this. I have this new adhesive on the front of the bike -- this number one. I'm proud of it but I don't think I am number one forever or that I can't lose," he said.
"I don't have more points than anyone else in the category from the beginning and I guess I can lose the championship. The other riders can beat me if I don't work hard or if I have an inferior bike."
Lorenzo started riding at the age of three when his father, himself a former racer, built him his first bike.
"I have always had this necessity to win. When I played with my friends on the street, football or running, I always wanted to be the best," he said.
"I competed in everything in Mallorca, all the championships, and I won a lot. You dream about getting into the world championship someday, to be professional, but it's a very long way and you don't know if this is going to happen or not."
