(InStyle.com) -- With the Grammy Awards coming up this weekend, most will be buzzing about not only Kanye West and Adele, but also what the nominees and artists will be wearing.
See some of the most unbelievable outfits from music's biggest stars.
Rihanna, 2011
Sultry Rihanna played peek-a-boo in a frilled illusion gown from Jean Paul Gaultier. "He's one of my favorite designers," she said. "I pretty much snatched [the dress] off the runway."
Katy Perry, 2011
An angelic looking Katy Perry called her Giorgio Armani Prive ensemble "classic, but with a theatrical edge." The look paired a Swarovski crystal-encrusted bustier with an iridescent ruffled skirt and feather wings.
Lady Gaga, 2010
Giorgio Armani designed a trio of stellar ensembles for Lady Gaga's Grammy night, including this crystal-studded bodysuit and ultra-minidress. Milliner Philip Treacy collaborated on her intergalactic headpiece.
See all of the wildest Grammys looks of all time
Toni Braxton, 2001
Toni Braxton wore Richard Tyler (and lots of double-stick tape) to pick up her Best Female R&B Vocal Performance trophy. "I've always gone a little risque with all my other awards [show outfits]," she told People. "I decided that before I got married and had babies, I'd wear this."
Mary J. Blige, 1996
Who's that mystery woman? A shades-wearing Mary J. Blige picked up her first Grammy for the Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group in head-to-toe leopard print. The covered-up look included a hood and gloves.
Christina Aguilera, 2001
Christina Aguilera showed some skin in a Trish Summerville gown with a lace-up neckline (and matching bra). Aside from her major braids, the double nominee made a beauty statement with a dress-matching temporary rose tattoo on her lower back.
InStyle.com: Top 30 Grammys gowns of all time
Annie Lennox, 1995
"What else is a girl going to wear to the Grammys?" joked Annie Lennox of her dominatrix-meets-Minnie Mouse ensemble.
M.I.A., 2009
A 9-months-pregnant M.I.A. performed on her baby's due date in a sheer House of Holland dress with strategically-placed patches.
Gwen Stefani, 2005
Double nominee Gwen Stefani went sheer with a ribbon-trimmed translucent dress from Viktor & Rolf over a pair of briefs.
InStyle.com: The 23 most unforgettable Grammys performances
Missy Elliott, 2000
Talk about razor-sharp tailoring! Missy Elliott opted for a purple Versace two-piece covered in blades.
Sheryl Crow, 2002
A floor-length coat did little to cover up Sheryl Crow's mini Henry Duarte jumpsuit. "Turning 40 really agrees with me," she told People. "I'm busting out."
Erykah Badu, 2002
"The most rock and roll accessory I have on tonight is my headband," Erykah Badu told InStyle. "It's made of copper leather, which I cut myself." Her avant-garde ensemble also included a draped dress with a leather sash, silver moonboots and waist-length green extensions.
See the other wild Grammy looks that made the full list at InStyle.com.
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
