As New Hampshire Sen. Jeanne Shaheen accused former Sen. Scott Brown of "fear-mongering" on Ebola, Democrats strongly agreed, Republicans completely disagreed, and independent voters stayed neutral.
That's according to the results of Microsoft Bing Pulse voting, where viewers reacted in real time to the CNN/NH1 New Hampshire Senate debate.
The two candidates squared off on national issues such as Ebola, terror threats, immigration, Obamacare and the minimum wage. Democrats and Republicans intensely favored the view of their party's candidate, naturally disagreeing when the opponent retorted.
Ebola, 'fear-mongering' dominate New Hampshire debate
Independents, however, remained true to their individuality, by overall not aligning with a particular party or candidate.
Brown blasted President Barack Obama's handling of the Ebola outbreak, saying if Romney were leading the nation, he would have minimized the threat and would have had a "clear and concise plan." Those words caused Republicans to strongly agree, while independents agreed less intensely in Brown's favor.
When the debate turned to ISIS, independents aligned more with Democrats. Both groups agreed with Shaheen when she supported Obama's decision not to send U.S. ground troops to the Middle East.
New Hampshire is known for its independent voters, who in September accounted for 43% of the state's electorate. The number of independent voters participating in Pulse was even higher, representing about two-thirds of participants.
'Rational fear' and 5 other key moments from debate
When the results are broken down by gender, men and women did not line up on the same wavelength.
Men and women both agreed when Brown criticized Shaheen for voting with Obama, but the genders diverged when Shaheen defended her support of the minimum wage, with women showing higher support.
The highest volume of voting occurred after debate moderator Wolf Blitzer asked Brown whether he supports raising the minimum wage, and Brown referenced a time when he worked a minimum-wage job. "My first job was at Dunkin' Donuts cleaning the grease trap," recalled Brown. "I still remember what the smell is."
New Hampshire was represented well in the Pulse audience, with 63% of participants saying they are registered voters of the Granite State.
