A man suspected of killing a police officer and another person Sunday night at a suburban Dallas, Texas, apartment complex was the son of the Dallas police chief, authorities said Monday.
David Brown Jr., the son of Dallas Police Chief David Brown, was also killed during an exchange of gunfire with responding officers, Dallas County Sheriff Lupe Valdez said.
Lancaster, Texas, Police Chief Keith Humphrey said David Brown Jr. was a resident of the apartment complex. Humphrey also identified the slain police officer as Officer Craig Shaw, who local media said was a five-year veteran of the Lancaster force and the father of two children.
Authorities at an afternoon press conference Monday wore black bands around their shields to mark the death of their fellow officer.
The incident began when officers responded to a call of a shooting at the complex Sunday.
"According to our investigation, Lancaster officers were called out to a scene and shots were exchanged where two people were killed including Officer Shaw and the suspect," Valdez told reporters Monday. "It appears the shooter is going to be David O'Neill Brown Jr."
"Another male victim was also discovered dead at the scene, apparently from a shooting that had occurred earlier," Valdez said, adding the younger Brown is also a suspect in that victim's death.
Kim Leach, a spokeswoman for the sheriff's department, identified the victim as Jeremy Jontae McMillian. McMillian's role in the incident is unknown, Leach told CNN.
Several weapons were found at the scene of the shooting, including a high-powered rifle, Leach said.
Charles Cato, the Dallas Police Department's first assistant chief, said, "Chief Brown asks that the Dallas community keep his family in their prayers this evening -- and in the days to come -- as his family tries to comprehend the circumstances surrounding this tragic incident."
Humphrey later added, "Of course, he's devastated. But Chief Brown also wanted to make that sure our officers were OK, and especially the family of Officer Shaw."
Pat Miles lives at the River Bend Apartments, where the shootings happened. "I just heard lots of quick shots, you know, like, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom," she told CNN affiliate WFAA. "That's all I heard. I jumped down on the floor."
Resident Tiffany James said it may have been a case of mistaken identity. "I heard the officer say, 'Ooh. I shot the wrong person,' and he busted out crying. Another officer grabbed him and hugged him," James told WFAA.
