Luke Donald leads the way with 18 holes to play at the RBC Heritage tournament in South Carolina.
The Englishman posted a five-under par 66 in Saturday's third round to finish the day eight-under par overall at the Harbour Town Golf Links.
Donald, who is seeking a sixth PGA Tour win, has a two-shot cushion over America's John Huh who posted a second successive round of 68.
Erratic progress on the opening nine -- an eagle, two bogeys and two birdies -- was replaced by some more consistent form by Donald on the back nine with birdies coming at the 10th, 11th, 14th and 17th holes.
South Africa's Charl Schwartzel is currently tied for third at five under with America's Nicholas Thompson, Ben Martin and Jim Furyk.
A total of 65 players returned early on Saturday to complete their second rounds after rain had halted play on Friday with Furyk (66) and Martin (67) tying the lead at five-under with South Korea's K.J. Choi after 36 holes.
Both men made steady progress in the third round with even-par rounds but Choi slipped down into a tie for 16th place with a three-over par round of 74.
First round joint-leader, Matt Kuchar is tied for seventh on four under following a round of 70 on Saturday.
British amateur Matt Fitzpatrick is also in the mix. A third round 69 leaves the 19-year-old on two-under par.
Defending champion Graeme McDowell is one shot further back following a disappointing round of 73 on Saturday.
Westwood lead cut in Malaysia
Meanwhile at the Malaysian Open in Kuala Lumpur, Lee Westwood will take a one-shot lead into Sunday's final round.
The Briton fired a one-under par 71 in his third round but saw his overnight lead of four strokes cut on Saturday thanks to a fine round of 66 from compatriot Andy Sullivan.
The 27-year-old, who is seeking a first European Tour win, finished the day one behind Westwood on 13-under par.
France's Julien Quesne is currently third on 10-under after shooting a 69 -- his third consecutive sub-70 round of the week.
Read more: Hornet attack 'my scariest moment' says Larrazabal
