Wayne Rooney insists he will be fit to lead England's charge for the World Cup after injury curtailed the Manchester United striker's English Premier League season.
The 24-year-old is currently sidelined with a groin injury but after picking up the Premier League's player of the year award -- voted for by his fellow professionals -- he said there is no way he will miss out on the tournament in South Africa.
Rooney has been in lethal goalscoring form this season, netting 40 goals for club and country, and has been pinpointed as the key player in England's bid to lift the World Cup for only the second time in their history.
"The groin will be fine for the World Cup, there are no worries about that," he told the Professional Footballers' Association awards in London. "I'm hoping to play for United in the last game of the season."
It is the first time Rooney has won the PFA award, though he has twice scooped the young player of the year award.
He said: "I remember coming here in 2005 and 2006 to win the young player of the year award. I saw the players winning the main one and it's something I've aimed for since."
Rooney paid tribute to his club manager, Alex Ferguson, who insists he has no plans to retire from the game, at 68.
"Sir Alex is a great manager who has really brought me on as a player since I joined United, Rooney said. "His hunger passes through to the players.
"It's great to see that he's pushing 70 and he hasn't changed a bit. I'm sure he'll be at United a long time yet."
Rooney is hoping Manchester United can secure a fourth straight Premier League crown, but they remain one point behind Chelsea after Carlo Ancelotti's side thrashed Stoke 7-0 on Sunday.
Chelsea travel to Liverpool next weekend in a game that could have a huge bearing on the destination of the title and Rooney is confident the Reds can do his side a favor.
"I'm sure Liverpool will want to beat Chelsea," said Rooney. "The pride they've got and the history they've got, I'm sure they'll want to win that game. They are fighting to get into the Europa League."
Aston Villa's James Milner -- another member of England coach Fabio Capello's squad -- picked up the young player of the year award.
