Yong Nam was appointed Vice Chairman and CEO of LG Electronics effective January 1, 2007.
Mr. Nam honed his strong business insight during his 30 years of experience with LG Electronics, LG Corporate and LG Telecom. He is well-known in the industry for his strategic outlook, in-depth IT experience and global perspective.
Prior to his appointment, Mr. Nam served as Head of Strategic Business for LG Corporation and was responsible for overall strategic business initiatives. He directly supported the LG Group chairman on a variety of business issues, including telecommunications.
Mr. Nam served as the President and CEO of LG Telecom from 1998 until 2006. Under his leadership, the company's revenue increased five-fold from $560 million to $2.6 billion, subscribers tripled from 2.1 million to nearly 7 million and profits grew to around $250 million in 2005.
He was instrumental in introducing the world's first mobile Internet service, ez-i, and in commercializing mobile banking service BankON, now the number one convergence service in Korea.
In 1997, he assumed additional responsibilities, overseeing the Executive Office for Strategic Projects, LG's corporate-level new business development arm. Later that year, he led the Multimedia Division of LG Electronics as Vice President and transformed the division into a profitable business within just one year.
Mr. Nam joined the LG Chairman's Office in 1986. As a Special Assistant to the Group Chairman, he ran the in-house team that drove change management. He also led corporate-wide efforts to achieve operational excellence and redefine LG's strategic direction.
Mr. Nam's career at LG began in 1976 when he joined LG Electronics in the overseas business planning division. As part of this role, he spent seven years in the U.S. in several management positions centered on marketing and sales, which helped him develop a global perspective on LG's business.
Mr. Nam is a graduate of Seoul National University, and is fluent in English and Japanese in addition to his native Korean. He enjoys golf, reading and hiking during his leisure time. E-mail to a friend
