Never underestimate the power of visualization.
"I was always dreaming about being the best in tennis," said world No. 1 Novak Djokovic, who became the first Open era player to win three consecutive Australian Open titles after beating Andy Murray 6-7 7-6 6-3 6-2 in Sunday's final.
"I remember as a kid, I was improvising and making little trophies out of different materials and going in front of the mirror, lifting the trophies and saying 'Nole was the champion!'"
The 25-year-old claimed an unprecedented third straight title in Melbourne and cemented his place among the game's all-time greats -- a feat all the more remarkable given the Serb's upbringing amid conflict in the Balkans during the 1990s.
"We didn't have a childhood that is similar to some of our generation of tennis players because we grew up during the war. There was a lot of struggle, difficulty financially ... but we survived," said Djokovic, referring to the three-year war which was the bloodiest in Europe since World War II.
"It was really hard to succeed and I have to thank God for the big support from my father and my mother and all the family," added Djokovic, who spoke to CNN's Open Court show during the Mubadala World Tennis Championship in Abu Dhabi, prior to the start of the season's first grand slam in Australia.
"They believed in me and gave me hope when I was facing a lot of disbelief, a lot of doubts.
Backed and also blessed with some impressive sporting genes -- father Srdjan and his uncle Goran were professional skiers -- Djokovic began his tennis odyssey at the age of four.
"I saw tennis on the TV and I saw the tennis court (near his parent's restaurant in Kapaonik, southern Serbia) and my father brought me a small tennis racket. That's when I think we all fell in love with the sport," he explained.
It was here that Djokovic caught the eye his first coach Jelena Gencic. "I knew that Nole would be the best in the world.
"Somebody asked him: 'Hey, boy! What do you want to be when you grow up?' (And he would reply): 'Be the first in pro-tennis.' He was six years old."
That almost in-bred ambition and winning mentality has brought him win four grand slam titles over the past two seasons -- notably claiming his first Wimbledon title in 2011 and his third Australian Open crown in the marathon six-hour final in Melbourne 12 months ago.
"Pressure is a privilege in a way and a big challenge for every professional athlete," said Djokovic. "It's just a matter of understanding it, and maturing as a player and getting that necessary experience to use it at the right moments to cope," he says.
"It's a privilege because it means that you are doing something that counts. And all my life I have been dreaming to be the best in what I do and my dreams came true."
Last year, from a psychological standpoint, Djokovic had a lot to cope with.
Along with epic victories on court came a great loss off it with the death of his grandfather, Vladimir last April. Further emotional strain followed in October when his father was hospitalized for a serious respiratory infection.
But there were also more welcome distractions on tour. Aside from his celebrity status -- which he enjoys -- and a legion of fans who give him "a lot of energy, positive vibrations and love," Djokovic plays mentor to his two brothers, 21-year-old Marko and Djordje who turns 18 in July.
A regular presence in the crowd at grand slams, Djokovic's brothers are now making their way in the game.
"They have great ambitions and I'm happy and fortunate to be able to advise them on and off court with their game and with their psychology in some way if I can," said Djokovic, who is all too aware of the weight of expectation on his siblings' shoulders given their big brother is world No. 1.
"Everybody expects them to play well and to do even better ... but each one has an individual path that they have to respect and I'm trying to help."
As Djokovic concedes, having three brothers away from home, is hard for their mother Dijana.
"It's definitely heartbreaking for (her) to see all three sons go away and none of us live in Serbia ... but (my parents) understand this is the life we have chosen and they respect our decision," said the Australian Open finalist.
While Djokovic continues to turn his childhood dreams into spectacular reality, it's clear no matter where he finds himself in the world, his values and heart remain as close to home as ever.
"I try to stay humble as much as I can because I want to have the most important, most valuable people in my life around me like family and friends. They are the ones who actually keep me grounded and focused on what I do."
