In 2008, the future looked bright for Breno.
A sought-after Brazilian soccer star, the teenager was leaving his homeland and heading to Germany to sign for one of Europe's most famous teams, Bayern Munich.
But four years later the defender's career, and his life, had unraveled. In July 2012 he was sentenced to three years and nine months in prison for burning down his Munich villa while reportedly battling depression.
"The time in prison has been very hard for me," confessed Breno at a news conference on Monday.
Now aged 23, the former Sao Paulo star has been offered a shot at redemption.
Having served 13 months of his sentence, Breno is being allowed to leave prison on day release and has been given the chance to rejoin Bayern as part of the coaching staff at the club's youth academy.
"I'm a little nervous," added Breno. "But I'm in good shape now. I'm delighted, and I'd like to thank the prison authorities and Bayern for this chance."
Breno will be collected from the correctional facility in Stadelheim at 0830 every morning by Bayern youth director Wolfgang Dremmler and returned at 1330.
Blog: Can Moyes meet Man Utd challenge?
The length of his day release could be extended to eight hours in a couple of months, according to Bayern's website.
"I think it's excellent that the prison authorities and all the authorities in Munich involved in the case have helped to open up this opportunity," said Bayern president Uli Hoeness.
The opportunity Breno has been given at Bayern, and the fitness work he has been doing in prison, could see the former Brazil under-23 player given an unexpected chance to resurrect his career.
Former club Sao Paulo were in Munich for the Audi Cup, a preseason tournament held at Bayern's Allianz Arena, and they opened the door for Breno to return to his former club.
Reports in December 2012 went as far as to suggest Sao Paulo had already offered Breno a contract, despite his incarceration.
A playing career back in Brazil might be the only option for Breno, with Hoeness claiming he will face deportation from Germany on his release from prison.
Breno hasn't played a professional match since coming on as a substitute in Bayern's 5-1 win over Bayer Leverkusen on April 17, 2011, but he will be allowed to work on his fitness in conjunction with his coaching duties.
"It means I can train again and maybe play again later on -- that's my dream," said Breno, while Hoeness confirmed, "at the Audi Cup, the people from Sao Paulo confirmed their strong interest in that."
Hoeness assured Breno he will receive Bayern's full backing, despite no long being under contract at the club.
"FC Bayern will do everything it can to help," said Hoeness.
"We've been informed by the prison authorities that he has behaved impeccably and has been an exemplary prisoner. His behavior here will be just as flawless."
