Philip Seymour Hoffman's last wish for his son was that he grow up in New York, Chicago or San Francisco, according to the late actor's will.
Hoffman, who died of a heroin overdose earlier this month, left his entire estate to "friend and companion" Mimi O'Donnell, who is the mother of his three children, according to the document released by the Manhattan Surrogate's Court Wednesday.
It was signed by Hoffman in October 2004, when his son, Cooper, now 10, was just a year old and before daughters Tallulah and Willa were born.
"It is my strong desire, and not direction to my guardian, that my son, Cooper Hoffman be raised and reside in or near the borough of Manhattan in the State of New York, or Chicago Illinois, or San Francisco, California," Hoffman stated in the 13-page will.
That provision was in a section that applied only if O'Donnell was not living at the time of his death and if a guardian was to be appointed for his children.
If living in his preferred three cities was not possible, Hoffman requested that his son at least visit there twice a year.
"The purpose of this request is so that my son will be exposed to the culture, arts and architecture that such cities offer," Hoffman's will said.
Noticeably absent from his list is Los Angeles, given Hoffman's fame as a Hollywood actor.
Hoffman named O'Donnell as his estate's trustee and executrix of his will.
Hoffman, 46, was found on the bathroom floor of his apartment, a needle in his arm. He was pronounced dead at the scene.
Investigators discovered close to 50 envelopes of what they believed was heroin in the apartment, law enforcement sources said. They also found used syringes, prescription drugs and empty plastic bags of a type commonly used to hold drugs, the sources said.
Hoffman, who was nominated for Academy Awards four times, won the Oscar for best actor in 2006 for his portrayal of writer Truman Capote in "Capote." He earned Academy Award nominations for roles in "Charlie Wilson's War," "Doubt," and "The Master."
