The Japanese Football Association (JFA) has announced that its national football team will play a charity match to help victims of the recent earthquake in the Asian country.
Japan was hit by a 9.0-magnitude earthquake and tsunami last week which has already claimed the lives of 6,500 people, with 10,354 reported missing.
The match is due to take place at Osaka's Nagai Stadium on March 29, with the Samurai Blue's opposition to be a team made up of players from the domestic J-League.
The recently-crowned Asian Cup champions have been forced to cancel friendly matches against Montenegro and New Zealand due to the disaster.
Can sport help Japan recover from disaster?
JFA president Junji Ogura said the association had tried to arrange a charity fixture with New Zealand, which was also recently hit by an earthquake.
"We have had strong requests from Japan coach (Alberto) Zaccheroni and our national team players that they want to do something to support and encourage the victims," Ogura told the JFA website.
"But because this is still a difficult moment, we thought we should hold a charity match to support those who have suffered in the quake-hit areas and assist in their recovery as soon as possible.
"I received a phone call from the president of the New Zealand Football Association and could understand that it was a tough decision they had to make following lengthy discussions.
"Although we cannot play New Zealand, we wanted to do something to encourage the victims. As we want to do it with the power of everyone, we would like to ask for your assistance."
Japan's captain Makoto Hasebe, a midfielder for German club Wolfsburg, expressed his and the team's desire to repay the nation for their support in last year's World Cup.
"Japan performed well in last year's World Cup by establishing great unity within the squad," the 27-year-old said.
"We were able to do this through the support we received from people across the country. Now our country is facing a big crisis and this is the moment we should do something in return for the people's support for us then.
"The only thing we can do is play football. It may not be much, but that's how we would like to encourage the Japanese people. I am heading back home to Japan to take part in this charity match for them."
Italian coach Zaccheroni took charge in 2010 and guided the team to Asian Cup success in Qatar in January.
The former AC Milan and Juventus boss believes the people of Japan will recover from recent events.
"Since I assumed the position of Japan coach, I have seen very closely the Japanese people's beauty and ability to unite, to be disciplined and to respect others. Because of that, I am convinced that Japan will recover for sure from any difficulties."
