(CNN Student News) -- September 16, 2013
As the U.S. and Russia announce a deal regarding Syria's chemical weapons, CNN Student News examines the details of the agreement and shares some critics' reaction. We also report on severe flooding in Colorado and a fire along a boardwalk in New Jersey. Plus, we track a voyage from NASA's launch pad to the edge of the solar system, and we mark the beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Should the news media have a role in monitoring the promises of governments? If so, how could the media do this without appearing biased?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. inaccessible area
2. boardwalk
3. solar system
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Chris Christie is the governor of what state?
2. When does Hispanic Heritage Month begin and end?
3. What is the name of the spacecraft that scientists say has reached the edge of the solar system?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion of a diplomatic plan to rid Syria of chemical weapons? If you could interview any of the major officials involved in this deal, what questions would you ask them? What do you think could be done to monitor the progress of this deal?
2. Why might heritage be important to someone? Do you find your own heritage important? Why or why not? Do you and your family hold traditions that reflect your heritage? Explain.
3. If you could send a message or object into space that reflects your life, what would it be? What would it say about you?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia 
Syria
North America
Colorado; New Jersey
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
