Actor Robert Pattinson dropped the f-bomb and singer Justin Timberlake grabbed the breasts of co-star Mila Kunis, who returned the favor by grabbing the pop singer's crotch.
And so went the 2011 edition of the MTV Movie Awards, where the outrageous and often sophomoric antics of the ceremony's featured performers tend to grab, so to speak, more attention than the awards themselves.
Between the gropes, the profanities and the off-color humor at Sunday night's 2011 version of the annual awards show, actors dispensed trophies to other actors.
"Eclipse," the third installment in the teen vampire saga "Twilight," carried the night with five awards.
That included honors for Best Picture as well as the Best Male and Female Performance awards, which went to co-stars Pattinson and Kristen Stewart. The movie also carried MTV's Best Fight and Best Kiss awards.
Meanwhile the award for best villain went to Tom Felton for his seventh outing as the churlish, bad boy wizard Draco Malfoy in "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows."
Ellen Page claimed the dubious Best Scared-As-(expletive) Performance prize for a supporting role in "Inception," and Emma Stone took top honors in the comedy category for her role in "Easy A."
MTV gave actress Reese Witherspoon, who at 35 was likely the most senior award recipient of the bunch, a "Generation Award," in recognition of her career in movies.
However, the moment was marred or immortalized -- depending on your point of view -- by an apparent failure of impulse-control by presenter Pattinson.
Pattinson, who played Witherspoon's lover in "Water for Elephants," told the audience "I did (expletive) you," uttering a profanity broadcast over the air without a bleep.
Pattinson didn't stop there. Moments later he quipped that that Witherspoon might be "33 percent lesbian."
Witherspoon wasn't the only celebrity to get ribbed for her fictional or real-life romantic pursuits.
Awards host Jason Sudeikis told the audience that actress and singer Selena Gomez had already swallowed three of boyfriend Justin Bieber's baby teeth while kissing the teen singing star.
Bieber, by the way, won Best Jaw Dropping Moment Winner for his biopic movie, "Never Say Never."
Other awards recipients included: Chloe Grace Moretz, who took the award for Best Breakout Star Winner for her performance as a vulgar child superhero in "Kick-Ass."
