Six people were killed and six were injured when a small plane crashed at Cork Airport in southern Ireland on Thursday, local officials said.
Survivors were taken to a local hospital, the Cork County Council said.
Four of the injured are in serious but not critical condition, and the other two are "comfortable," Cork University Hospital said.
The crash caused a fire and scattered debris over a large area, the Irish Aviation Authority said in a statement.
The plane crashed on its third attempt to land in low visibility, they said. The airport and roads around it were closed, officials said.
It was coming from Belfast in Northern Ireland. Flight NM7100, an inbound Manx2 airline flight, was due to land at Cork Airport at 9:45 a.m., the airport said.
Northern Ireland's First Minister Peter Robinson and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness expressed shock at the deaths.
Robinson called it "a terrible tragedy," and said his thoughts were "with the families of the bereaved. My thoughts are also with the injured and I hope that they will make a full and speedy recovery."
McGuinness sent his "condolences to the families, friends and loved ones of those who have lost their lives in the plane crash. My thoughts are also with those who have been injured."
In Dublin, Ireland's Prime Minister Brian Cowen said, "my thoughts are with all of those affected by this morning's crash, including the families and friends of those who have died. I also want to send my best wishes and those of the government, to all of those who survived the crash and are being treated in hospital at present.
"I also want to commend the work of the various rescue crews and all of the emergency and support staff working to help those involved in the crash."
The aircraft involved was a Metro Liner leased from Flightline BCN in Spain, low-cost airline Manx2 said.
Irish and British experts will be involved in the crash investigation, authorities said.
CNN's Carol Jordan and Peter Taggart contributed to this report.
