Prince William and his wife, Catherine, combine commerce and charity work during their three days in Southern California, including participation in a polo competition Saturday afternoon.
While Hollywood stars and Beverly Hills socialites angled for invitations to their events, the last leg of their whirlwind North American tour includes interaction with commoners and even a visit to skid row in Los Angeles.
A Royal Canadian Air Force jet brought the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to Los Angeles from their last stop in Calgary, Canada Friday afternoon. California Gov. Jerry Brown and his wife greeted them as they stepped off the plane.
The couple immediately convoyed to a technology conference at the Beverly Hilton Hotel where they browsed the exhibits of British and American companies. William and Catherine chatted with venture capitalists and technology leaders individually, but they did not address the group.
While Beverly Hills is heavily populated with celebrities, the visit by the recently married couple has created a major stir.
Spago, Wolfgang Puck's restaurant, offered a British menu for the duration, including dishes served during the royal wedding festivities. The Beverly Hills eatery added Yorkshire pudding to it's menu for the weekend.
William and Catherine are a "fresh new young couple who are decidedly in love," Spago co-founder Barbara Lazaroff said.
Beverly Hills women donned their finest hats, including the "Fascinators" style that created a fashion stir at the wedding. "It looked devine," Lazaroff said. "It was like the way people used to dress to go to the theater."
Police kept the city's famously aggressive paparazzi at bay Friday evening as the royal newlyweds attended a private party at the British consul general's Hollywood home. Neighbors surrounding the residence, where the royals also spent the night, gave police permission to arrest any photographers caught on private property.
Catherine will watch as Prince William participates in the "Foundation Polo Challenge" Saturday at the Santa Barbara Polo & Racquet Club in Carpinteria, California.
They'll returned to Los Angeles for a Saturday evening party at the Belasco Theater. BAFTA, the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, is inviting several dozen up and coming British thespians to mingle with Hollywood's elite. The royal presence is intended to boost the careers of the Brits.
Sunday, their last day in California, will start with a visit to Los Angeles' skid row where they'll see an arts program for inner-city children.
The last public event "aims to strengthen" the ties between British and U.S. military, a news release said. Prince William and Catherine will mingle with military veterans gathered at Sony Studios for a job fair.
Before they left for the United States Friday, William and Catherine kicked off the Calgary Stampede in Canada, where parade-goers got a glimpse of the royal couple.
The royal newlyweds donned cowboy hats and watched as musicians and dancers performed at the annual event. The Alberta government hosted a reception for the royal couple at the Calgary zoo.
Finally, they attended a departure ceremony, complete with full military honors and a 21-gun salute. The newlyweds started their Canadian tour last week in Ottawa, Ontario.
