Ever been to Gettysburg National Military Park in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania?
How about the Church of Our Savior on Spilled Blood in St. Petersburg, Russia?
If not, you're missing out on two of the world's top 10 landmarks, at least according to TripAdvisor, which on Tuesday released the results of its second Travelers' Choice Attractions Awards.
Machu Picchu, the 15th-century Inca citadel located in Peru, tops the travel website's list of the world's top landmarks.
The awards list the top landmarks, as well as the top parks, in the world and United States.
There are also dedicated lists for Asia, Australia, Canada, China, Europe, India, Mexico, South America, the South Pacific and UK.
Stanley Park in Vancouver, Canada, is the world's top park, according to the website, followed by the Garden of the Gods in Colorado, which edged out Central Park in New York as the top park in the United States.
The awards identify leading travel spots around the world "based on the millions of valuable reviews and opinions from TripAdvisor travelers," said the travel website in a statement.
"Winners were determined using an algorithm that took into account the quantity and quality of reviews for landmark and park attractions worldwide, gathered over a 12-month period."
The world landmarks top 10 list includes numerous religious sites, including Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. (#2); the Great Cathedral and Mosque in Cordoba, Spain (#4); St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City (#5) and Bayon Temple at Siem Reap, Cambodia (#7).
The U.S. landmarks list includes four sites that honor the country's soldiers and war dead -- Gettysburg National Military Park in Pennsylvania, the USS Arizona Memorial at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, and the Vietnam Veterans Memorial and Korean War Veterans Memorial, both in Washington, D.C.
The list features a number of head-scratchers, not so much for what's included, but for what isn't.
Portland Head Light lighthouse in Cape Elizabeth, Maine, for example, comes in at number 22 on the list of U.S. attractions, but there's no mention of New York's Statue of Liberty or Arizona's Grand Canyon (both operated by the National Parks Service) or even Seattle's Space Needle in the U.S. top 25.
The Cloud Gate, a modern stainless steel public sculpture at Millennium Park referred to by locals as "the Bean," is the only Chicago attraction to crack the U.S. top 25 -- none of Chicago's architectural classics, including the Willis (Sears) Tower, Wrigley Building and John Hancock Center appear in the top 25 U.S. landmarks.
Likewise, Egypt's pyramids (or any site in Egypt for that matter) are nowhere to be found in the world's top 25 landmarks list.
"TripAdvisor Travelers' Choice Attractions highlighted landmarks and parks as these are places people can visit as part of their trip to a destination," TripAdvisor spokesperson Erin Millard tells CNN.
"National and state parks are often destinations and trips in and of themselves.
"We defined landmark as a historically, architecturally or culturally significant attraction, and they are typically owned or run by a governmental or non-profit organization. Registered national historic landmarks and UNESCO sites are also included."
Click here for the full list of TripAdvisor's World's Top Landmarks and Parks Travelers' Choice Attraction Awards.
Top 10 World Landmarks
1. Machu Picchu, Machu Picchu, Peru
2. Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E.
3. Taj Mahal, Agra, India
4. Great Cathedral and Mosque, Cordoba, Spain
5. St. Peter's Basilica, Vatican City
6. Angkor Wat, Siem Reap, Cambodia
7. Bayon Temple, Siem Reap, Cambodia
8. Church of Our Savior on Spilled Blood, St. Petersburg, Russia
9. Gettysburg National Military Park, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania
10. Ancient City Walls, Dubrovnik, Croatia
Top 10 U.S. Landmarks
1. Gettysburg National Military Park, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania
2. Lincoln Memorial and Reflecting Pool, Washington, D.C.
3. Golden Gate Bridge, San Francisco
4. Alcatraz, San Francisco
5. USS Arizona Memorial, Honolulu
6. Cloud Gate, Chicago
7. Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Washington, D.C.
8. New York Public Library, New York
9. Cathedral of St. John the Baptist, Savannah, Georgia
10. Korean War Veterans Memorial, Washington, D.C.
Top 10 World Parks
1. Stanley Park, Vancouver, Canada
2. Garden of the Gods, Colorado Springs, Colorado
3. Central Park, New York
4. Millennium Park, Chicago
5. High Line, New York
6. Kings Park and Botanic Garden, Perth, Australia
7. Guell Park, Barcelona, Spain
8. Ibirapuera Park, Sao Paulo
9. Retiro Park (Parque del Retiro), Madrid
10. Luxembourg Gardens, Paris
Top 10 U.S. Parks
1. Garden of the Gods, Colorado Springs, Colorado
2. Central Park, New York
3. Millennium Park, Chicago
4. High Line, New York
5. Boston Public Garden, Boston
6. Golden Gate Park, San Francisco
7. Balboa Park, San Diego
8. Bryant Park, New York
9. Forsyth Park, Savannah, Georgia
10. Falls Park on the Reedy, Greenville, South Carolina
What do you think about TripAdvisor's list of top attractions and parks? Leave a comment.
