When Wanda Barzee shared her story of an abusive marriage in a church-sponsored  counseling session in 1985, Brian David Mitchell took her hand to comfort her. "And  we've held hands ever since," Mitchell's wife testified  Thursday.
Barzee, 65, scanned the room, bit her lip, and  breathed heavily as she waited for her testimony to begin. When she raised her  right hand to take the witness oath, the heavy chain of her shackles appeared.
Barzee struck a deal with state and federal prosecutors  last year and is serving a 15-year prison sentence for her involvement in the  2002 abduction of Elizabeth Smart.
In spite of Barzee's agreement to testify, prosecutors in  Mitchell's federal trial did not call her to the stand, and she instead began  her testimony for the defense Thursday afternoon in a Salt Lake  City courtroom.
In a flat voice and sometimes rambling, Barzee recounted  the start of her relationship with Mitchell; a journey that eventually led her  to the mountainside camp where she watched over a tethered teenage girl her husband  said was his chosen bride.
"I was married to my first husband for 20 years,  raising six children, and it was a very abusive situation. And I never healed  from that situation," Barzee said of her first marriage. "Brian was so  supportive of me, he became my best friend," she said.
"He said he was abused, also."
"We were both going through a divorce, so normally it  wasn't approved by the church that we date," Barzee continued, but she said they  received rare consent from leaders at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day  Saints to pursue the relationship. The two wed nine months later, on the day  Mitchell's divorce became final.
The first year of marriage, she said, was "hellish,"  with a volatile and possessive Mitchell often storming off from their apartment  in fits of anger. He told her he was "consumed by fear and doubt," and sometimes  simply screamed into a pillow for long periods.
She struggled through, because of a bishop's  blessing that said Satan would do everything in his power to separate the two,  but that the Lord would give Barzee the strength to fight back.
Religious counsel and Bible readings gave her the  remedy: "I started to be more silent, and I learned to be submissive and  obedient."
Also called to testify Thursday was Tim Mitchell, Brian  Mitchell's younger brother by six years, who described the defendant as an  intelligent and resourceful big brother who built model airplanes, devised  flying rockets, and endeavored to build a roller coaster in the family's back  yard. Once, Tim Mitchell recalled, Brian constructed a hot-air balloon from  cloth and sent it flying; it landed squarely on top of their home and set the  roof on fire.
As Brian grew, he struggled with failed relationships, smoked marijuana and drank. That changed one night when the brothers discussed  their religious beliefs by a campfire, and the younger one professed his  devotion to the Mormon faith.
"He became a little bit tearful and said, 'I think what  you're saying is true' and 'I kind of lost my way.' I remember he had a pack of  cigarettes and he tossed them in fire and said he wanted to change his life,  too."
For a time, Brian did change, said Tim Mitchell, though  his relationships with family members were often strained and laced with  suspicion. Then, Barzee entered his life.
"All of a sudden we heard he doesn't have a job anymore, and he's moved up to Idaho, and he's living  in a trailer up there."
After a chance encounter in a Salt  Lake City grocery store sometime  later, Brian explained he and Barzee were wandering the country, ministering to  the homeless.
Tim Mitchell expressed his concerns: "I said, 'I think  you're going off on the wrong way, I think you're drifting away from the church.  I think maybe you've been deceived by a false  spirit.'"
Their contact was limited after that, until it ceased entirely about five years before the kidnapping of Smart. The brothers  encountered each other at their mother's house, and Brian asked to be called  "Daveed." His younger brother refused.
"I just kept calling him Brian."
"I started feeling that this is really starting to look  like a mental illness and I sent a letter encouraging him to get some help,"  said Tim Mitchell, who works as a mental health counselor.
Defense attorneys are mounting an insanity defense for  Brian Mitchell, 57, hoping to prove that mental illness clouded his mind to such a  degree that he did not understand that his actions were wrong when he abducted  and held Smart. Their case has so far consisted of family members and friends of  the defendant, and could include Mitchell himself.
Barzee will continue her  direct examination Friday morning.
