(CNN Student News) -- September 26, 2013
After a U.S. senator holds the floor for nearly 22 hours, CNN Student News reports on why he did it, how some of his colleagues reacted, and some of the rules governing this marathon session. We also cover an earthquake in Pakistan, we describe statements from Iran's new president, and we hear some reaction to a new policy for disabled guests at Disney theme parks.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
When might a world leader give an interview to the media of another country? In what ways -- positive and negative -- might that interview be perceived by viewers in different countries?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. U.S. Senate floor
2. company policy
3. sense of normalcy
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. How did a recent earthquake impact the people and geography of Pakistan?
2. What caused an explosion earlier this year in West, Texas?
3. Who is Scotty McCreery? What is the purpose of the charity he supports?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why might a lawmaker choose to give a long speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate? Under what circumstances might this be most and least effective? Explain.
2. Why do you think that the international community is taking notice of recent statements made by Iranian President Hassan Rouhani? Why might some world leaders be skeptical about these statements?
3. What is your opinion of the policy shift in Disney theme parks? Do you think it will affect the experience of Disney's disabled guests? If so, how? If not, why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Pakistan; Iran
North America
West, Texas
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
