Reigning world champion Sebastian Vettel has started the 2011 Formula One season as he finished the last, claiming pole position in qualifying ahead of Sunday's season-opening Australian Grand Prix in Melbourne.
The Red Bull driver's lap of one minute and 23.529 seconds was enough to keep him 0.778 seconds ahead of McLaren's Lewis Hamilton, who will join him on the front row.
Vettel's Australian teammate Mark Webber finished third fastest in front of his home crowd, with Hamilton's fellow McLaren driver Jenson Button in fourth position at Albert Park.
Two-time world champion Fernando Alonso will start from fifth on the grid for Ferrari and Vitaly Petrov of Renault will also be on the third row after a lap of one minute 25.247 earned him sixth position.
Will tires decide new Formula One season?
Seven-time champion Michael Schumacher's qualifying woes from the 2010 campaign continued after he was eliminated at the end of the second round, which means the Mercedes driver will start from 11th position.
Schumacher's fellow German and teammate Nico Rosberg qualified in seventh ahead of Ferrari's Felipe Massa in eighth, Kamui Kobayashi of Sauber in ninth and Toro Rosso's Sebastien Buemi in 10th.
Vettel recorded the fastest lap without using the newly re-introduced KERS technology, which stores energy created when breaking and converts it into an extra boost of speed.
"We didn't use it today and the reason for that will stay a secret!" the 23-year-old told Formula One's official website.
"It was a very good day today and so far a very good weekend, and hopefully this will lead to our best Melbourne result ever.
Formula One 2011 lowdown
"The gap (between Hamilton's time and Vettel's time) is almost irrelevant. It could be one thousandth or one second. You only have those eight meters between you and the guy in second position, nothing more, nothing less. And in a long race eight meters may mean very little."
It was a disastrous session for Spain-based team Hispania Racing, who saw both of their drivers fall foul of a rule which states any driver whose best lap is not within of 107% of the fastest lap time in the first qualifying phase will not be allowed to take place in the race.
As a result, India's Narain Karthikeyan and Vitantonio Liuzzi of Italy will not line-up on the grid for Sunday's race.
