Jose Mourinho's Chelsea had the last laugh on London rival West Ham to keep up its relentless pace at the top of the English Premier League with a 2-0 Boxing Day home win.
The pre-match build up had centered on Mourinho's remarks after the corresponding fixture last season -- when peeved by the West Ham defensive tactics in a 0-0 draw -- he said manager Sam Allardyce and the team had been playing "football from the 19th century" -- amid other sharp criticism.
Mourinho backtracked on these remarks and has paid compliment to West Ham's fine form in the current campaign, in fourth place ahead of the latest round of games, but it did not prevent the Hammers' official Twitter feed from posting a witty rejoinder before the match.
It featured a tweet with a sepia-colored picture of a horse and cart, accompanied by the caption: "The West Ham United team coach (and horse) has arrived at @chelseafc for today's game #19thcenturyfootball".
In truth, once the match got underway there was little the visitors could do to stem the tide of almost constant Chelsea attacks, with very little in reply.
Eden Hazard, recovered from the knock he received in the 2-0 win over Stoke Monday, was a strong influence again for the Blues, who went ahead when John Terry reacted quickly to a Diego Costa header from a Cesc Fabregas's corner.
It was the former England international's second goal in two games and his team might have been further ahead but for Adrian producing a fine save from Nemanja Matic and top scorer Costa shooting over.
Hazard was nearly on the score sheet early in the second half, but it was the Belgian international who turned provider as he played Costa through to finish clinically for this 13th of the season just after the hour mark.
Further goals might have followed with the table toppers in confident mood, although West Ham came close to cutting the deficit when substitute Morgan Amalfitano hit the post with a shot.
"We played a very good game against a very difficult opponent. When we scored, we had the game always under control," Mourinho told Sky Sports. "I am really happy. We are doing very well."
Later, defending champions Manchester City kept the gap on Chelsea to three points with a fine 3-1 win at West Bromwich Albion, while third-placed Manchester United eased past Newcastle 3-1, with Wayne Rooney scoring twice.
Southampton won 3-1 at Crystal Palace to leapfrog West Ham into fourth spot, the defeat the last match in charge for home boss Neil Warnock.
He was sacked by the south London club Sunday with Keith Millen coming in as caretaker boss.
Tottenham Hotspur took closer order to the Champions League spots with a 2-1 win at bottom club Leicester.
In the Boxing Day late game, Alexis Sanchez saw his penalty saved by Rob Green then put Arsenal ahead in a 2-1 win over QPR at the Emirates.
The Gunners had Olivier Giroud sent off for a headbutt on Nedum Onuoha, but added a second through Tomas Rosicky. A Charlie Austin penalty reduced the deficit but the 10-man home side hung on as Arsenal went sixth.
