Independent Senator Angus King announced Wednesday that he will continue to caucus with the Democratic Party despite their loss of the majority late Tuesday night. And despite rumors that he might be switching sides, moderate Democratic West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin also insists he'll stick with the party.
In a press conference on Tuesday, the Maine senator was quick to downplay his decision as a political move, telling the public that he will not "become a Democrat" or side with all the their policy positions going forward.
"Who I caucus with is less important than who I work with--every day in the committee, on the senate floor, in the hallways, and here at home," he said. "That's what's best for Maine--and that's what's best for the country; that's what I've done so far."
King, who considered siding with the Republicans, would have added an extra seat to the majority if he caucused with them.
"A fair question at the outset is whether being in the majority caucus isn't reason enough in itself to make the switch," he said. "But I think there are other considerations -- particularly as they relate to Maine -- that offset this argument. "
King said he now has the responsibility to "pull his colleagues toward the center," the same type of role he said fellow Mainer and Republican Sen. Susan Collins had under a Democratic majority.
Manchin echoed King's sentiments in an interview Wednesday, saying he wouldn't leave the Democratic party to caucus with the GOP despite his own party losing the Senate majority Tuesday night.
"If you don't have moderates on both sides, you don't get anything done," he told The Washington Post. He said the Republicans "played it masterfully," and admitted that he's frustrated with Democratic leadership -- especially Harry Reid.
"This is a real ass-whuppin," Manchin said. The first-term senator is rumored to be considering leaving Congress and mounting a bid for governor in his home state.
"One of the real problems with modern American politics—and the Congress—is polarization," King said. "Both sides need problem-solvers who are more interested in getting things done than scoring ideological or political points," he said.
With Ebola battle brewing, Obama heads to Maine
Justin Peligri contributed to this report.
