When it comes to the richest horse race on the European circuit, the girls are definitely beating the boys.
Treve became the third successive filly to win the $5.4 million Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe in Paris on Sunday, following in the example of Solemia and Danedream, plus Zarkava in 2008.
The French-bred three-year-old romped to the fifth successive race win of her career, beating Japanese favorite Orfevre by five lengths at Longchamp.
Jockey Thierry Jarnet made the most of his late call-up as replacement for Frankie Dettori, who broke his ankle on Wednesday, as the 46-year-old captured his third Arc -- and first since 1994.
"It was a different era when I was riding for Andre Fabre and I'm just pleased to show I can still be effective," Jarnet said.
"This is beautiful, more in a way for the filly than for myself, as I have a strong affinity with her."
Trained by Criquette Head-Maarek, who in 1979 became the first woman to prepare an Arc winner, Treve is owned by Qatar's Sheikh Joaan Bin Hamad Al Thani.
"I want to say thank you to Frankie Dettori as he rode an amazing race on her in the Prix Vermeille. I said to save her for today and he did," Head-Maarek said of Treve, which also won last month's Grade One warmup race to be only the sixth horse to complete that double.
"I am sorry he is not here today. The way she won was incredible. She was wide the whole way and was traveling so easily the jockey just said he just let her go.
"I'm surprised how well she won, as we've never pushed her. I thought she had six gears, but today she put the seventh one on."
Treve's connections said her triumph came despite running with "her nose the the wind."
"The right horse always manages to get herself out of difficult situations," Jarnet said.
Breeder Alec Head added: "It is extraordinary! She had the worst possible race and yet won brilliantly. What a filly! I have trained good horses, but ones like that ..."
It was another disappointment for the thousands of Japanese fans who again flocked to Longchamp, with Orfevre falling short for the second year in a row
"Treve took off at the 350 and we couldn't follow her," said his Belgian jockey Christophe Soumillon.
"I was hoping she would stop, but she didn't. I'm very sorry for the Japanese fans, owners and trainers who want to win this beautiful race and keep finishing second."
Another Japanese hopeful, Kizuna, was fourth behind Fabre's German-bred, French-trained Intello.
