(CNN)Charlotte Dujardin says she is "living the dream" as she cements her status as a dressage legend.
Dujardin and Valegro won their their second consecutive Reem Acra FEI World Cup Dressage title in Las Vegas at the weekend -- a trophy to sit alongside Olympic gold and the world and European titles.
While their score of 94.196 narrowly missed their own world record in the sport, it was still a full 10 percentage points clear of any rival inside the Thomas & Mack Arena.
Dutchman Edward Gal and Glock's Undercover were second with 84.696, ahead of Germany's Jessica von Bredow-Werndl and Unee BB in third with 80.464.
"Valegro just loves his job," said Dujardin.
"I don't have to force him to do anything, I just sit there and steer and off I go. There's no sweating, no pushing, no pulling. He knows his job and it's just fantastic" added Dujardin, who couldn't stop smiling as she was pictured next to an Elvis impersonator after her win.
Not everyone finds World Cup success quite that relaxing.
Switzerland's Steve Guerdat may be the London Olympic champion, but his Longines FEI World Cup jumping victory in Vegas came at the 10th attempt.
Guerdat and Albfuehren's Paille had the last fence down and narrowly avoided a time fault that would have denied them the outright win.
"I don't really want to think about it," he joked. "Coming to the last I knew the time was tight.
"I just went as fast as I could to the finish line, but unfortunately there was a big fence in the way."
He added: "I've been three times on the podium, twice in the jump-off and always finished in the top 10. I always wanted to win this."
The World Cup Finals are among the most prestigious equestrian titles, but the weekend's events in Las Vegas were notable for the success of younger riders.
American dressage rider Laura Graves, a 27-year-old who burst onto the international scene with fifth place at last year's World Equestrian Games, improved to fourth in Vegas.
Her performance was outdone by Irish showjumper Bertram Allen, who took bronze on Sunday at the age of 19.
The teenager is likely to rise through the ranks of the world's top 10 following that performance, while gaining precious Olympic qualification points.
Allen and Molly Malone finished behind French rider Penelope Leprevost, on board Vagabond de la Pomme, who took silver.
