Striker Carlos Tevez has been suspended by Manchester City after the furore surrounding his non-appearance from the substitutes' bench during the 2-0 Champions League defeat at Bayern Munich on Tuesday.
City manager Roberto Mancini slammed the Argentine international following his team's loss at the Allianz Arena, claiming Tevez had refused to take to the pitch and would consequently not play for the club again.
And, although Tevez subsequently released a statement denying the claims, City have now confirmed that the player will be suspended for the immediate future.
A statement on City's official website read: "Manchester City can confirm that striker Carlos Tevez has been suspended until further notice for a maximum period of two weeks.
"The player's suspension is pending a full review into his alleged conduct during Tuesday evening's 2-0 defeat to Bayern Munich.
"The player will not be considered for selection or take part in training whilst the review is under way."
Earlier on Wednesday, former Manchester United forward Tevez rejected Italian coach Mancini's claims and said the incident was a "misunderstanding."
"I would like to apologise to all Manchester City fans, with whom I have always had a strong relationship, for any misunderstanding that occurred in Munich," read the statement from Tevez.
Tevez tantrum is a disgrace to soccer
"They understand that when I am on the pitch I have always given my best for the club. In Munich on Tuesday I had warmed up and was ready to play. This is not the right time to get into specific details as to why this did not happen. But I wish to state that I never refused to play.
"There was some confusion on the bench and I believe my position may have been misunderstood. Going forward I am ready to play when required and to fulfil my obligations."
The statement is in contrast to Tevez's remarks immediately after the match, when he appeared to reaffirm his desire to leave City.
"I think it's Mancini's decision. I've been a professional throughout," he told British broadcaster Sky Sports through a translator. "I put my opinion through, that I wanted to leave for family reasons and I still played my best."
Gomez double gives Bayern 2-0 win
The fixture in Europe's premier club competition was set to be a landmark occasion for City; whose clash with four-time European champions Bayern represented their first away match in the tournament.
But the match unravelled for City, who won the English FA Cup last season, when Germany striker Mario Gomez grabbed two goals in the closing stages of the first half.
Tuesday's controversy is the latest development in a saga which has seen Tevez move close to an exit from the Etihad Stadium on several occasions.
The former Corinthians striker handed in a transfer request in December 2010, citing a breakdown in communications with the City board as the reason behind his decision.
It looked as if Tevez was set for a return to Sao Paulo-based Corinthians in July, but the four-time Brazilian champions claimed there was insufficient time to conclude the deal.
City have signed a host of attacking players in 2011, including the capture of Dzeko from Wolfsburg in January and the additions of Sergio Aguero from Atletico Madrid and France midfielder Samir Nasri from Arsenal in the last transfer window.
As a result, Tevez has struggled to break into City's starting line-up so far this season and has seen defender Vincent Kompany replace him as club captain.
"He wanted to leave last year," former Inter coach Mancini told a press conference on Tuesday. "I helped him for two years every time. He refused to play. I cannot accept this behaviour from him. I decide the substitutions, not Carlos.
"Do you think at Bayern Munich one player can play like this? Or Milan or Manchester United? No. There were 30 minutes to the end. There was time to change the game."
