Family members of a missing Oregon boy said they are trying to keep the focus on finding the boy and not suspicions about the boy's stepmother.
Kyron Horman, 7, vanished on June 4, and since then there has been intense scrutiny on Kyron's stepmother, Terri Horman. Police had asked her to take a second polygraph test in relation to the case, and other family members have said that she has not been forthcoming about what happened, based on briefings they have had from law enforcement officials.
It is unclear why a second polygraph was requested.
The boy's father, biological mother and stepfather spoke to the media late Monday about the stepmother and why they believe that Kyron is still alive.
"We remain hopeful because we haven't been given any information by law enforcement to indicate he isn't still alive and therefore we will always expect that he will come home to us," the family said in an e-mailed response to reporters covering the case.
Kyron went missing after Terri Horman dropped him off at school on June 4. The stepmother said she last saw Kyron walking down a hallway toward his second-grade classroom at Skyline Elementary School in Portland, according to the police.
Police have not called her a suspect in the case but suspicions about her have dominated headlines in recent weeks. Sources told the CNN affiliates that investigators believe that Terri Horman has lied to them, and cell phone records could show she wasn't where she claimed to be.
In the e-mail response, Kyron's family members said they hope people will focus more on the missing boy.
"Our main goal is to keep Kyron in the front of everyone's mind because we have a better chance of finding him. So we are constantly working to keep him the focus of the story and not Terri," the family members said.
Terri Horman was again in the headlines Monday when CNN affiliates KGW and KATU reported that she had attempted to hire a landscaper to kill her husband several months ago.
KGW reported that sources believe Terri Horman approached the landscaper, who had been working on the family's property in northwest Portland, and offered the man "a large sum of money" to kill her husband, Kaine Horman.
Kaine Horman and the other two family members who e-mailed reporters did not want to comment on that report. But they did say that they continue to feel that Terri Horman is not completely cooperating with police running the search for Kyron.
"We continue to issue our plea of her FULLY cooperating with law enforcement and the investigation to help bring Kyron home as quickly as possible," the family members said.
However, at a news conference last week, Multnomah County Sheriff Dan Staton said that "to date there has been no indication through our detectives or through our investigators that she's been uncooperative," KATU reported.
Repeated efforts by CNN to reach Terri Horman have been unsuccessful. She has not made any other public statements.
CNN's Gabriel Falcon and HLN's Natisha Lance contributed to this report.
