Britain's Prince William and his wife will join thousands of people Friday to mark Canada Day during their first official foreign trip as a married couple.
Prince William and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, arrived in Ottawa on Thursday aboard a Royal Canadian Air Force jet
"Catherine and I are so delighted to be here in Canada. Instilled in us by our parents and grandparents, we love this country. We have been looking forward to this moment for a very long time," William said.
They attended a series of events, including laying a wreath at the National War Memorial to recognize Canada's servicemen and women.
On Thursday evening, they met with young Canadians at a barbecue.
Prince William has said it is a "great privilege" to be invited to Canada for their first trip as a married couple.
The itinerary for the nine-day tour features a mix of official events with less formal activities, including a cooking workshop in Montreal and the Calgary Stampede, an annual rodeo and festival.
On Friday, the couple will mark Canada Day by attending a citizenship ceremony and joining thousands of people for a show featuring music and military displays.
Friday would have been the 50th birthday of Prince William's mother, Princess Diana, who visited Canada with Prince Charles in 1983.
Widespread support for the monarchy makes Canada, which is part of the Commonwealth -- a loose association of nations that used to be part of the British Empire -- a pretty safe bet for a debut royal tour, correspondents say.
However, anti-monarchy protesters are expected to demonstrate Sunday at Quebec City Hall.
This is not the first trip to Canada for Prince William, who was mobbed by screaming girls when he visited in 1998.
"I have wonderful memories from my last times in Canada and as such we consider it a great privilege to have been invited to Canada for our first joint tour," he said.
The itinerary also includes stops in Prince Edward Island -- where Prince William will take part in a coast guard rescue exercise -- the Northwest Territories and Alberta.
After they wrap up their Canadian tour, the prince and duchess will head to California for three days.
CNN's Max Foster contributed to this report.
