A former teacher in Oklahoma has been charged with sending lewd images of young female students to a retired professor in Pennsylvania, authorities said Thursday.
Kimberly Ann Crain, who taught third grade in McLoud Public Schools, faces 23 criminal counts, including manufacturing and possessing juvenile pornography, distribution of juvenile pornography and lewd molestation, according to a Thursday filing in Pottawatomie County district court.
The alleged recipient of the photos and videotapes -- sent via e-mail and Skype -- was identified as Gary Joseph Doby. Students allegedly knew him as "Uncle G," according to authorities.
The retired Bloomsburg University professor also has been arrested, according to Oklahoma City FBI special agent Clay Simmonds.
Doby, 65, faces eights counts of manufacturing juvenile pornography and one count of conspiracy to manufacture it. Doby's location following his arrest could not be confirmed Thursday night, nor could it be determined whether he was being represented by an attorney.
CNN's attempts to reach Crain's attorney Thursday night were unsuccessful.
According to the complaint, Crain, 48, took photos of the girls in a classroom and at a pizza party at her home.
After a search of Crain's home, police confiscated computers and numerous documents and asked for FBI assistance, Simmonds said. Crain was arrested on December 1.
The FBI found information on the woman's Skype account that led them to Doby, Simmonds said.
A search Thursday of Doby's home yielded a computer "among other questionable items," the FBI said.
As he was being led away from his arraignment and extradition hearing, Doby told a reporter for CNN affiliate WNEP in Scranton, Pennsylvania, "Be kind and considerate to my family, because they're going to need it and they didn't have anything to do with this. They need prayers and it's me, not them."
Crain is accused of taking photos or videos of girls, in many cases with either their breasts or genitals exposed.
A concerned Shawnee, Oklahoma, parent contacted police in mid-November after she became aware of contact the teacher had with students at her home, Simmonds said.
Crain had invited the students to her home for a pizza party, according to a Shawnee police probable cause affidavit.
A parent said her daughter told her that Crain took photos of the girls, dressed in bras and panties she provided, while decorating a Christmas tree, the affidavit states. The underwear had Christmas themes with words like "Ho! Ho!" on them, the affidavit states.
According to witnesses cited in the affidavit, Crain also would hold up a sheet in the corner of the classroom and have the girls strip down to their bras and panties. The teacher allegedly took photos of the girls, telling them "Uncle G" is going to want to see these pictures."
The affidavit states the FBI found numerous sexual chats between Crain and Doby on Crain's personal laptop computer.
An FBI agent said that in some chats, Doby identified some of the students by name and described how "he liked the features of their private parts and indicated that he wanted to see them nude. Within the recovered chats, Doby instructed Crain to get the girls to cooperate."
Another parent said she learned from her daughter that a hidden camera or video camera in Crain's home captured images of the girls changing into T-shirts and panties.
McLoud Public Schools said it is cooperating with law enforcement agencies.
"As you now know, the Pottawatomie County District Attorney's office was in the midst of conducting an intense and in-depth investigation; therefore, we complied with its request to not release any information which would in any way jeopardize the investigation, and ultimately, an additional arrest," the schools said in a statement.
A spokeswoman for Bloomsburg University told CNN Oklahoma City affiliate KWTV that Doby retired in 2008.
CNN's Jake Carpenter, Jeremy Ryan, Nick Valencia and Carma Hassan contributed to this report.
