A frigid winter storm system that put Dallas in the deep freeze will hit the East Coast on Sunday. Lucky for those people, it should be a one-day affair.
Snow, ice or freezing rain will fall on Washington, Philadelphia, New York City and Boston on Sunday, the National Weather Service said. On Monday, temperatures will rise into the 40s and any accumulation should start to melt, the weather service predicts.
Folks in other parts of the country will need an extra blanket on the bed. Unseasonably cold weather will continue.
On Sunday, temperatures are expected to only reach about 10 degrees in the northern and central Rockies, the northern Plains and the upper Midwest. Sleet and freezing rain is forecast from the Tennessee Valley to Mid-Atlantic on Sunday.
Parts of Texas, the Upper South and the Midwest socked by the winter storm will warm up just a little bit on Sunday. The Weather Service said the temps will rise into the high 30s and 40s, but drop below freezing again Sunday night.
How cold was it? On Saturday Southern Methodist University gave away tickets for its football game with Central Florida but didn't get many takers. All but a few seats in the stadium were empty.
The high temperature at the Dallas/Fort Worth airport Saturday was 26 degrees -- the coldest high temperature ever recorded there on December 7 and the coldest December day in Dallas/Fort Worth in 23 years, CNN affiliate WFAA-TV reported.
At least seven people have died in storm-related incidents, with the Texas State Patrol reporting two weather-related fatalities on Saturday but providing no details.
In Lewisville, about 25 miles north of Dallas, the driver of a pickup lost control on an icy road, spun out of control on a road over Lake Lewisville, went over a guard rail and landed in the water. Firefighters dove into the frigid water and towed the truck to the bridge. The unidentified driver died. A passenger was killed Thursday when a vehicle lost control and crashed into another car in Hockley County, the Texas Department of Public Safety said.
In Arkansas man was killed late Thursday when a tree fell on his camper in Pope County, the Department of Emergency Management said. Highway Patrol officials in Oklahoma blamed at least one death, in Muskogee, on the weather. In New Mexico, one person died when a semi crashed near Clines Corners.
The storm took a toll on travel, causing hundreds of car crashes and forcing the cancellation of hundreds of departures at Dallas/FortWorth International Airport. The FAA said Saturday operations had returned to normal. Abandoned cars littered the interstate outside Dallas.
Winter came much earlier than usual in many sections of the nation.
Farmersburg, Indiana, recorded up to 10 inches of snow Thursday and temperatures fell into the single digits at night. "This was early for us to have this much measurable snow late in the fall, but has happened before," Mark Ivy told CNN iReport. "It is more the cold that is unusual."
In East Kingsford, Michigan, iReporter Jason Asselin said he's covering blankets to keep you the cold. "In December, our average temperatures are in the 20s," he said. "Currently it is zero degrees outside."
Across the High Plains and into the Great Lakes, temperatures were expected to be 10 to 35 degrees below average, with wind chill values predicted to reach 35 to 45 degrees below zero in some areas.
From the central Appalachians through central New England, snow is expected into early Saturday morning, the National Weather Service said.
It was cold in Memphis, Tennessee, for a second straight day, with a high of 24 degrees. The weather will be a little warmer Sunday and Monday, with the mercury creeping up to 36 and 43 degrees, respectively.
The governors of Tennessee and Arkansas declared states of emergency ahead of the worst of the storm.
CNN's Melissa Lefevre, Jennifer Gray, Samantha Mohr, Jason Morris and Dave Hennen contributed to this report.
