Chelsea captain John Terry has been been hit with a four-match ban and a $356,000 fine after being found guilty of racially abusing Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand.
The incident occurred during Chelsea's English Premier League game against London rivals Queens Park Rangers at Loftus Road last October.
In July the 31-year-old had been found not guilty of a racially aggravated public order offence at Westminster Magistrates' Court.
But the FA requires a lower burden of proof than an English court and after four-day hearing the Chelsea skipper was found guilty "with using abusive and/or insulting words and/or behavior towards" Ferdinand.
Racism remains "significant" problem in English football
The defender will be available for Chelsea's game against Arsenal on Saturday as the ban will not come into effect until the end of the appeal process.
This is the second high-profile case of racist abuse on the football field following the incident between Liverpool's Luis Suarez and Manchester United's Patrice Evra last year.
Suarez gave 'unreliable' evidence to racial abuse hearing, says FA report
The Liverpool striker was banned for eight matches and fined $65,000 after being found guilty of misconduct, regarding "using insulting words towards" Evra during the game at Anfield on October 15 2011.
Terry retires from England amid racism case
The verdict comes just days after Terry announced his retirement from international football.
The Chelsea defender, who won 78 caps for his country, captained England in two separate spells.
Terry claimed that the FA had made his position within the national team 'untenable'.
His representatives, Elite Management, said in a statement released on his behalf: "John Terry is disappointed that the FA Regulatory Commission has reached a different conclusion to the clear not guilty verdict of a court of law.
"He has asked for the detailed written reasons of the decision and will consider them carefully before deciding whether to lodge an appeal."
A statement from his club added: "Chelsea notes and respects today's decision by the Football Association regarding John Terry.
"We also recognise that John has the right to appeal that decision. It is therefore inappropriate for us to comment further on the matter at this time."
Sports lawyer Daniel Geey told CNN that Terry might have only got a four-game rather than eight-match as the Chelsea captain only used the phrase once rather than seven times as Suarez was found to have done by the FA.
