Rihanna postponed a concert in Malaysia that was set for Friday night, according to the show's promoter, following reports that she was allegedly assaulted by boyfriend Chris Brown.
Rihanna was scheduled to play a concert in Malaysia on Friday.
Promoter Pineapple Concerts announced Tuesday that it was notified by Rihanna's agent at the William Morris Agency that she would not make the Malaysia date.
"In light of recent events involving Rihanna, the artist management will confirm within two weeks from now on a replacement date to be mutually agreed by Pineapple Concerts and the artist," the company said.
The promoter stressed that it was "not a cancellation but a postponement" and told those who bought tickets to hold on to them for a rescheduled date.  Watch the latest on the Brown-Rihanna incident »
The concert, to be held in at Stadium Putra Bukit Jalil on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur, is part of Rihanna's "Good Girl Gone Bad Tour," which began last year.
Malaysia's conservative Islamic party protested against Rihanna last month, saying her show is too risque for the country.
"Rihanna's image including her dressing is not suitable for our culture," Kamaruzaman Mohamad of the Parti Islam Se-Malaysia (PAS) told Malaysia's Star newspaper.
"Even if she wore a headscarf here, we know it is not her real self because she performs differently in other places," he said.
The government rejected the PAS demand that the show be canceled.
Rihanna -- whose full name is Robyn Rihanna Fenty -- canceled her performance at Sunday night's Grammy Awards as police were looking for Brown in connection with the alleged domestic violence incident.
Brown, 19, turned himself in Sunday night. He was arrested on suspicion of making criminal threats.
Brown was later released on a $50,000 bond. He is scheduled to appear in court on March 5.
Police said Brown and a woman were in a vehicle near Hollywood's Hancock Park early Sunday when they became involved in an argument.
The woman "suffered visible injuries and identified Brown as her attacker," police said.
While police did not identify Rihanna, 20, as the alleged victim, sources close to the couple told CNN she was the woman involved in the incident.
Brown's lawyer has not responded to several requests for comment.
