(CNN)Former supermodel Janice Dickinson accused Bill Cosby of sexual assault, telling "Entertainment Tonight" in an interview aired on Tuesday that the comedian raped her.
Dickinson is the latest of a handful of women who have accused Cosby of sexual assault -- allegations the comedian has repeatedly said are untrue. He has never been prosecuted.
In the interview, Dickinson claims Cosby assaulted her in 1982 after the two had dinner in Lake Tahoe. She alleges he gave her a pill and a glass of red wine shortly before she passed out.
"The last thing I remember was Bill Cosby in a patchwork robe, dropping his robe and getting on top of me. And I remember a lot of pain," she said.
Cosby attorney Martin Singer called Dickinson's story "a lie" and said it contradicts her own autobiography and a 2002 interview she did with the New York Observer.
"That interview a dozen years ago said, 'she didn't want to go to bed with him and he blew her off,' " Singer's statement said Wednesday. "The only story she gave 12 years ago to the media and in her autobiography was that she refused to sleep with Mr. Cosby and he blew her off. Documentary proof and Ms. Dickinson's own words show that her new story about something she now claims happened back in 1982 is a fabricated lie."
Dickinson did not return a call from CNN seeking comment.
Rape allegations haunt Cosby in the digital age
Since 2005, a handful of women have made the claims. This year, the accusations resurfaced, and earlier this month, a seemingly harmless post on Cosby's Twitter account turned them into a social media storm.
In its wake, one of his accusers, Barbara Bowman, turned to the public once more with an article in The Washington Post and interviews with CNN.
Bowman claims she was drugged, then raped, though she said she never saw drugs. "I woke up out of a very confused state not in my clothes," she said.
Bowman said she knew her body had been touched without her permission. This occurred several times in the course of their contact, she said.
On Saturday, NPR broadcast an awkward interview with Cosby in which he didn't utter a word when repeatedly asked about the claims about him.
NPR host Scott Simon filled the airtime by saying Cosby was just "shaking his head no."
CNN's Jethro Mullen and Eliott C. McLaughlin contributed to this report.
