(InStyle.com) -- How many closets does it take to make a "Desperate Housewife" happy? Just one, if it's anything like Parker's. We got a guided tour--and learned a lot more about the fashion-savvy star than her taste in shoes.
"I love my new name. In Texas people are formal, so now it's 'Mrs. Parker.' I feel old! But I love it."
Best dress
A "gorgeous 1950s-style cocktail dress by Gustavo Cadile is my absolute favorite. It's fun, but classic too," says Parker.
Treasured keepsake
A clutch that belonged to her aunt: "She was the glue of our family. It's so beautiful and so impractical -- nothing fits in it."  Watch what else is in her closet »
First Christmas gift from Tony Parker
A necklace designed by Monique Lhuillier. "It's his Spurs number. I love it."
Loves, but doesn't know what to do with
A "quirky lip-shaped purse by Judith Leiber. I can't figure out how to wear it!"
Fashion faux pas
"One time, my mom and aunt Didi were helping me clean out my closet. Aunt Didi had taken off her jacket. I grabbed it and was like, 'What is this? Who would give me this ugly thing?' And she was like, 'That's mine!' "
Go-to outfit
"A thermal top, a scarf, and I'm not just saying this because she's my friend, but I love my Victoria Beckham DVB jeans. She sent me three pairs--they're perfect."
First splurge
"I'd always wanted Uggs, but I always had the impostors--the Muggs, the Thuggs, the everything but. I still wear [them]."
Owns in multiples
"Christian Louboutin espadrille wedges. They're so high! I have them in every color. I've sprained my ankle walking on the cobblestones in Paris wearing them. They're a beautiful pain."
Cool freebie
"Richard Tyler mules. I did a photo shoot and they said I could keep them. I simply could not believe someone would give me a $300 pair of shoes. I was fascinated!"
Most expensive item
"My hot-pink crocodile Hermès Birkin bag. Robert Verdi, my stylist, told me, 'Wear it with everything--even to bed. This is going to be handed down in your will.' " E-mail to a friend
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2007 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
