Hillary Clinton rolled out a new addition to her usual stump speech geared towards women empowerment on Thursday: Her new granddaughter Charlotte.
"I think my granddaughter has just as much God-given potential as a boy born in that hospital on the same day," the former Secretary of State said at the Commercial Real Estate Women Network Convention in Miami.
Bill and Hillary Clinton became grandparents last week when their only daughter, Chelsea, gave birth to Charlotte Clinton Mezvinsky on Friday, Sept. 26 in New York City.
While it is obvious that that line is new for Hillary Clinton -- the baby was just born last week -- she was more overt in mentioning her granddaughter as a way to drive home her points.
Clinton's speech both opened and closed with a mention of her new granddaughter.
Photos: See grandparents with baby
When the former secretary of state took the stage, a woman shouted, "You look beautiful!"
Clinton laughed and said, "I think it is a grandmother glow."
"She is doing great," Clinton said of Charlotte. "She is the most perfect, most beautiful, smartest five day old you will ever know."
After delivering a speech that stressed the importance offering an equal playing field to women, Clinton closed her speech stating that with the right policies, her vision of equal pay, paid leave and affordable child care could be attained.
Clinton's midterm campaign schedule
That, Clinton said, is "the kind of country I want my granddaughter growing up in."
Charlotte was also on the minds of many of the attendees -- and participants -- in Thursday's conference. While on stage with Clinton, Judy Nitsch, the president of CREW, asked what advice she will have for Charlotte when she gets older.
"One is do the very best you can at everything you do... but learn from your mistake and your failures," Clinton said. "Second, be kind. Try to find a time for kindness every single day."
Her last piece of advice was something, Clinton said, she hoped to model for her new granddaughter.
"Find something you are passionate about, that you love to do," Clinton said. "And again, pursue it. It can be anything, it can be a sports, it can be the arts, it can be service. Find something that you really feel invested in."
