Days after he left a nursing home, radio icon Casey Kasem was the subject of a welfare check at a residence in Washington state, officials said Thursday.
Kitsap County sheriff's deputies went to an address provided by California Adult Protective Services, Scott Wilson, a spokesman for the sheriff's office, told CNN.
Authorities on Tuesday afternoon found Casey Kasem and his wife, Jean, visiting longtime friends at the home. The couple was staying there on vacation, Wilson said.
After staying 40 minutes and determining that Kasem was alert, not in distress and was receiving appropriate care, the deputies left.
Kitsap County authorities would not release the address where they found Kasem, citing privacy reasons. The county is just west of Seattle.
"We are grateful to local authorities for finding my Dad. We are one step closer to bringing him home," daughter Kerri Kasem said in a statement Wednesday night.
The family still has "grave concerns about his medical care," the daughter's representative said in the statement.
"The Kasem family will do everything in their power to bring their father home," Danny Deraney said.
Family members, judge concerned
New guardianship
Kasem, 82, is suffering from Lewy body disease -- a common cause of dementia, a spokesman for his daughter told CNN on Tuesday.
On Monday, a judge named Kerri Kasem the temporary conservator until a June 20 hearing.
But she hadn't been able to take on the responsibility without knowing where he was. Kerri Kasem has said she feared her father may have been taken out of the country.
Kerri and her sister, Julie Kasem, told CNN they last visited their father a week ago in the California nursing home where he was staying.
When the daughters' attorney, Troy Martin, called the day after the visit to check up on Kasem, he was told by the nursing home that he had been removed overnight, Martin told CNN.
When asked whether there had been any wrongdoing in the Washington state visit, Wilson said: "They're free adults. They can travel where they want."
Daughters vs. wife
Julie Kasem and her husband, Dr. Jamil Aboulhosn, filed an earlier conservatorship petition claiming the retired radio host "has been isolated from his daughters, friends and other family" by his wife.
"We tried everything to get her to let us see him when she stopped bringing him over to the house," Kerri Kasem told CNN in December. "She had an assistant bring him over to the house so we could see him every weekend. She stopped. My sister went there, knocked on the door, and she was escorted off the property."
But the wife gave a very different take on the ordeal last November.
"These children single-handedly and irreparably shattered the lives of their father, his wife and youngest daughter, the calm of their home and their neighborhood by engaging in uncalled for public demonstrations and personal attacks in the media," she said in court papers, according to CNN affiliate KCBS.
"They are doing so with a professionally orchestrated media and legal campaign that has disgraced their father and vilified their stepmother."
Last year, a judge ruled that Kasem was being well cared for by his wife. The judge denied a request by Kasem's children that a temporary conservator be appointed.
Attempts to contact Jean Kasem's attorney this week have been unsuccessful.
Jean Kasem, 60 this year, was an actress with roles in "Ghostbusters" and "Cheers."
Decades of fame
Casey Kasem, who hosted radio music countdown shows "American Top 40" and "Casey's Top 40" for decades, retired in 2009.
Besides the famed countdown shows, Kasem was also the voice of Shaggy in the cartoon "Scooby-Doo" and an announcer for NBC. He was a popular DJ and occasional actor before "American Top 40" began in 1970.
His case has drawn attention to Lewy body dementia -- the second most common type of progressive dementia after Alzheimer's, according to the Mayo Clinic.
The condition can be hard to diagnose because Parkinson's and Alzheimer's cause similar symptoms, according to the National Institutes of Health.
All-time great DJs
