Ferrari's Fernando Alonso set a blistering pace on the first practice day ahead of this weekend's Formula One Monaco Grand Prix.
The Spaniard edged out McLaren's British driver Lewis Hamilton in the afternoon session after drivers' championship leader Sebastian Vettel had gone fastest for Red Bull in the morning.
Alonso's quickest lap of one minute 15.123 seconds was 0.105 secs ahead of Hamilton, while Nico Rosberg was third in his Mercedes. McLaren's Jenson Button was fourth with Vettel fifth, Felipe Massa sixth and Michael Schumacher seventh.
"I'm confident with the car," Alonso told reporters. "I'm happy to push and I'm pushing more and more every lap with no big surprises from the car.
"Monaco is about confidence in the car and having a good set-up which enables you to brake later, to go into the corners quicker and to go closer to the wall with no big risk. At the moment the car is offering me that possibility so I'm happy."
Alonso is currently fifth in the standings, 67 points behind Vettel but is showing signs of improvement after a difficult start to the season.
The Spaniard showed glimpses of form at last Sunday's Spanish Grand Prix, which he led for 18 laps before finishing fifth, but was wary that his rivals would raise their game going into qualifying on Saturday.
"It's only Thursday and we know that on Saturday the pressure will increase," he said.
"Red Bull always test different things on Fridays and then on Saturday they are very strong so I expect them to be competitive in qualifying. This is a very unique venue so anything can happen here."
Hamilton, whose victory in China is his sole success this season, trails Vettel by 41 points, but demonstrated in the afternoon session he could be a big threat to the podium this weekend.
Hamilton told reporters he is a big fan of Monaco: "It is fantastic, I love this track. I've just been so excited all day. I kept it out of trouble and I'm happy with the balance of the car and our high-fuel run.
"It is going to be close, though, as the Red Bull is fast and the Ferrari looks fast too. But I'm pushing and pushing, I want to win this grand prix."
In the morning session Vettel's recorded a fastest lap of one minute 16.619secs with Alonso close behind. The second practice session at Monaco is on Saturday, swiftly followed by qualifying.
