Novak Djokovic has claimed a fourth Miami Masters title after an emphatic straight sets win over his old rival Rafael Nadal at Crandon Park.
The Serb was at his ruthless best in Sunday's final wearing down the world No. 1 to win 6-3 6-3 in one hour 24 minutes.
The title was Djokovic's 43rd of his career and follows his recent triumph at Indian Wells where he beat Roger Federer in three sets.
It was the 40th time Djokovic and Nadal had met during their careers and while the Spaniard still has the edge overall -- 22 wins to Djokovic's 18 -- the Serb has now extended his advantage on hard courts to 14-7 against Nadal.
What was expected to be a close match ended up being one-way traffic as Djokovic outplayed his opponent.
Parity lasted for five games before the world No. 2 broke serve in the sixth.
Realizing the danger, Nadal redoubled his efforts in the next, taking Djokovic to deuce before the Serb stepped up a gear to open up a 5-2 lead.
It was too much for Nadal to recover and when the Spaniard lost his serve in the opening game of the second, the match could have slid away more easily than it did.
The world No. 1 stuck at his task but in the end couldn't find a way through Djokovic's watertight defenses.
Scenting victory Djokovic pounced in the ninth game, attacking Nadal's serve and setting up match two points.
He completed proceedings in style getting the upper hand in a stunning final rally before collapsing in celebration.
"It's been a fantastic tournament, a very enjoyable time as it always is in Miami," said Djokovic.
"I played a great match, from the start to the end everything was working really well. It's always a challenge and a pleasure to play against Rafa.
"Back in 2007 I won my first big title here in Miami and I have the greatest memories from this center court."
Djokovic didn't drop a set (although he did have two walkovers) in winning his third Miami title in four years while Nadal is still searching for a first after finishing runner-up for a fourth time.
Hingis doubles joy
There was joy for Martina Hingis earlier in the day as she won the women's double title alongside partner Sabine Lisicki from Germany.
The pair overcame Russia's Ekaterina Makarova and Elena Vesnina 4-6 6-4 10-5 in Sunday's final.
Hingis, 33, made the most of hers and Lisicki's wild-card entry to Miami after returning to doubles action at Indian Wells earlier this month.
The win is Hingis' third in the doubles at Miami -- she won in 1998 and 1999 wth Jana Novotna -- and her first for seven years.
Read more: Serena seals record seventh Miami title
