It'll be a brand-new "View" in less than two weeks, with three new co-hosts in a new studio and with a new boss behind the scenes.
The long-running ABC talk show finalized its cast Wednesday, confirming that actress Rosie Perez and political analyst Nicolle Wallace will join Whoopi Goldberg and Rosie O'Donnell.
The four will start working together when new episodes of the show resume on September 15.
Goldberg is the only cast member from last season left standing -- well, mostly sitting -- at "The View." Barbara Walters' retirement from the show in May was the first in a series of changes, both on- and off-camera. In July, Sherri Shepherd and Jenny McCarthy stepped down from their co-host spots. And Walters' producing partner, Bill Geddie, was replaced by Bill Wolff, most recently an executive producer at MSNBC.
In a statement Wednesday night, Wolff described the four hosts as "powerful and accomplished women from different walks of life who have had amazing personal and professional experiences."
"Each brings incredible perspective and information to the table. This mix of smart, vibrant and energetic women is unlike anything else on daytime television."
"The View" faces challenges from a growing number of other daytime panel-style programs, including "The Talk" on CBS and the forthcoming syndicated show "The Real."
There had been speculation that ABC might decide to add a man to what has been an all-women show since its inception in 1997. Ultimately the network went with star power over testosterone.
Perez has starred in feature films such as "Do the Right Thing" and is about to co-star in the Broadway production "Fish in the Dark."
Wallace has a conservative political background, serving as a director of communications during the George W. Bush administration and a senior adviser to Sen. John McCain's 2008 campaign for president. She is a regular on MSNBC's "Morning Joe."
The casting of Perez and Wallace was first reported by Deadline.com on Wednesday. The website noted that ABC's "top-to-bottom makeover" of the talk show also entails a "new studio, new set (and) new logo."
Rosie O'Donnell returning to 'The View'
