Jose Mourinho bemoaned the "worst season of my career" after seeing his Real Madrid side slip to a 2-1 extra time defeat to capital rivals Atletico in the final of the Copa del Rey.
Mourinho, who is widely tipped to return to take charge of English Premier League Chelsea, made his feelings clear to the media after seeing his last chance of silverware this season slip away.
In the last few weeks, Real have lost in the semifinals of the Champions League to Borussia Dortmund and seen arch-rivals Barcelona clinch the Spanish La Liga title.
A season which started with such promise after beating Barca to win the Spanish Super Cup has petered out and left the "Special One" frustrated.
"This is the worst season of my career with a title that is not sufficient  to satisfy Real Madrid and therefore it is a bad season.
"With a final, a semifinal, second place in the league and the Supercup,  what for many would be a good season, for me is the worst."
Pressed on his likely move to Chelsea, Mourinho refused to be drawn. "I have a contract for three more years and I have still not sat down with  the president to talk about my future," he said.
"I have to be honest. Until the day that the president sits down with me  and the club does something official it has to be like this."
If the match in the Santiago Bernabeu Friday night is to prove Mourinho's swansong at Real, it didn't go as   planned.
It wasn't the best of nights for his talisman Cristiano Ronaldo, either, as he saw red in the dying minutes.
Mourinho was ordered to leave the touchline by the referee for protesting a decision late in the second half as Atletico won their first Copa del Rey in 17 years.
The scrappy contest that featured more than a dozen yellow cards and two reds was settled by Miranda's header in the eighth minute of extra time on a night when it seemed Atletico, which hadn't beaten their city rivals since 1999, were destined to lift the trophy.
After Ronaldo opened the scoring in the 14th minute with a typically impressive header, Diego Costa leveled on a counter attack in the 35th after superb work by striking partner Radamel Falcao.
Real Madrid struck the post three times prior to the game entering extra time and Atletico keeper Thibaut Courtois made two stunning saves to preserve the victory and help end his team's three-match losing streak in Copa finals.
The affair turned ugly in the dying minutes, with Ronaldo given a straight red card for kicking out at Gabi and players from both benches having to be separated. Courtois fell to the ground when struck by an item thrown from the stands at Real's home stadium.
Mourinho believed his team should have lifted the cup and had been plain unlucky.
"The result is 1-1 and it is not normal to hit the post three times," he said.  "You don't have to be a magician of football to think that the result is not fair, that Atletico are not the deserved winners of the final.
"The refereeing is forgotten, the shots off the post are forgotten, all  that remains is that the winner is Atletico."
Winning manager Diego Simeone was simply delighted while acknowledging their fortune.
"It was an incredible game. We had the luck you need to have to be  champions," he told gathered reporters.
