For those of us still religiously watching reruns of "Boy Meets World," great news: TVLine reports that the Disney Channel is considering a sequel series, "Girl Meets World," that would focus on the adolescent daughter of Ben Savage's Cory Matthews and Danielle Fishel's Topanga Lawrence.
Word has it Disney is also trying to get Matthews and Fishel to return to portraying Cory and Topanga, and Fishel raised our hopes by tweeting November 3, "Just want you guys to know that @BenSavage and I have talked and we've decided ... Thanksgiving is going to be delicious this year!"
While we wait to see whether Disney will make a "Boy Meets World" update a reality, let's catch up with the cast:
Ben Savage (Cory Matthews)
Ben Savage played the mischievous Cory Matthews from 1993-2000, going from sixth-grader to college student and newlywed. Following "Boy Meets World" series finale, Savage went on to graduate from college in real life, earning a degree in political science from Stanford in 2004.
The now 32-year-old has continued to act, both in movies like 2007's "Palo Alto, CA," and with appearances on shows such as "Without a Trace," "Bones," "Chuck" and "Shake It Up!"
William Daniels (George Feeny)
William Daniels' George Feeny was one of the most beloved adult characters on "Boy Meets World," playing a teacher/principal/next-door neighbor and voice of reason to Cory Matthews.
Daniels moved on from following Cory throughout his educational career to landing roles on "Touched by an Angel," "The Closer" and "The King of Queens." Most recently, 85-year-old Daniels appeared on the ninth season of "Grey's Anatomy" as Dr. Craig Thomas.
Rider Strong (Shawn Hunter)
It's unknown if Cory's best friend, Shawn Hunter, would be in consideration for a potential new series, but we sure hope so. The character, with his leather jacket and floppy haircut that turned actor Rider Strong into a major crush for fans, appeared in all 158 episodes of "Boy Meets World."
After the series ended in 2000, Strong continued acting in shows such as "Kim Possible" and "Pepper Dennis," and movies such as 2002's "Cabin Fever." The Columbia grad (English, '04) and Bennington College M.F.A. has moved behind the camera as of late, having written and directed projects along with his brother, Shiloh, such as 2008's "Irish Twins."
Betsy Randle (Amy Matthews)
After playing the mom of Cory Matthews, Amy, Betsy Randle has kept a low profile. The married actress and mom of two was last spotted on the now-defunct series "Charmed" in 2004.
Will Friedle (Eric Matthews)
Will Friedle played Cory Matthews' lovably dense older brother, Eric, for seven years. Once the show ended, Friedle kept up a career on the small screen, although viewers might not have recognized him. Now 36, he's done voice work on "Batman Beyond," "Kim Possible," "The Penguins of Madagascar" and "Thundercats" as Lion-O.
William Russ (Alan Matthews)
William Russ, now 62, moved on from playing even-keeled dad (and pretty randy husband!) Alan Matthews to roles in both daytime ("The Young and the Restless") and primetime ("Boston Legal"). He's most recently appeared on the CBS new series "Vegas."
Danielle Fishel (Topanga Lawrence)
Danielle Fishel came to fame playing '90s dream girl Topanga Lawrence, who went from aggravating know-it-all to Cory Matthews' sweetheart and, at series end, his wife. Fishel tried her hand at film with "National Lampoon Presents Dorm Daze" after the series ended, but has moved away from acting in recent years.
The 31-year-old has served as a special correspondent on "The Tyra Banks Show," as host of Style's "The Dish," and now appears on MSN TV's "Last Night on TV."
Lily Nicksay (Morgan Matthews, 1993-95)
The original Morgan, Lily Nicksay played little sister to Cory and Eric for two years before Lindsay Ridgeway took over. Nicksay, now 24, has continued to work in TV with roles on "Judging Amy" and "8 Simple Rules."
Lindsay Ridgeway (Morgan Matthews, 1996-2000)
After playing the slightly older Morgan for the remainder of "Boy Meets World's" seven-season run, Ridgeway did voice work on the TV series "Totally Spies!" Like some of her castmates, Ridgeway went on to pursue a higher education at the University of California, Riverside, from which she graduated in 2007.
Anthony Tyler Quinn (Jonathan Turner)
After playing high school teacher Jonathan Turner from 1994 to 1997, Anthony Tyler Quinn stayed on the small screen with roles on "Melrose Place" and "Caroline in the City," plus a steady diet of guest appearances. ("Pretty Little Liars" fans, did you spot him in the 2012 episode, "A Hot Piece of A"?)
Matthew Lawrence (Jack Hunter)
Matthew Lawrence, brother of fellow actors Joey and Andrew, played the older half-brother of Shawn Hunter and Eric Matthews' best friend and roommate, Jack. The 32-year-old actor has landed big screen roles after "Boy Meets World" in movies such as 2002's "The Hot Chick" and 2007's "The Comebacks."
Trina McGee (Angela Moore)
Rider Strong's Shawn Hunter was a heartthrob, but to Trina McGee's credit, fans also rooted for her character Angela's relationship with the resident bad boy of "Boy Meets World." The 43-year-old mother of three continued acting on the big-screen with an appearance in 2002's "Friday After Next" and on the small screen with an appearance in 2007 on the comedy,"All of Us."
Lee Norris (Stuart Minkus)
Longtime fans remember the nerdy Minkus well, but the character didn't last long on the series. Lee Norris, however, has had a healthy TV career; the 31-year-old has starred on "One Tree Hill" as Marvin "Mouth" McFadden.
