Cesc Fabregas has reacted to speculation over his future by insisting he is "wholeheartedly committed to Arsenal".
Fabregas has again moved quickly to quell suggestions he is looking to leave Arsenal.
The Spain midfielder has been linked with moves to former club Barcelona and big-spending Real Madrid in recent days, and was quoted in a report on Thursday berating his team-mates' "impotence" in their attempts to win silverware.
However, Fabregas has hit back at suggestions he could be ready to quit the Emirates Stadium and told www.arsenal.com: "I'm not sure how many times I need to talk directly about my commitment to Arsenal as I continue to say the same thing over and over again, but it appears that every time I have spoken to the Spanish media recently, my words have bounced back to England, leaving question marks about my future.
Check out the world's 20 most wanted players
"So, for anyone who is unclear or may have misunderstood what my position is, let me make myself absolutely crystal clear. I am wholeheartedly committed to Arsenal and my future lies with this great club."
In this morning's report, Fabregas revealed his frustration at the Gunners' trophy drought which stretches back to the FA Cup final of 2005.
Comparing his situation to that of Cristiano Ronaldo, who is poised to leave Manchester United for Real Madrid after a glorious spell at Old Trafford, the 22-year-old was quoted as saying: "The absence of titles at Arsenal is what angers me the most.
"Cristiano said he's leaving Manchester United because he had nothing else to win. For me right now it is the exact opposite, seeing the impotence.
"This year we wanted it, we were giving everything -- but we couldn't reach the level that everyone expected of Arsenal."
In Thursday afternoon's statement, Fabregas did not attempt to downplay his anger. However, he insists that is a motivation to improve the club's fortunes, rather than a reason to throw in the towel and head for his homeland.
"It is a fact that we have not won a trophy for four years and yes, I am angry about that, but that anger stems from the deep deep desire I have to win things with Arsenal," he said.
"I care about this club and believe in this team. I am proud to captain this team and proud to wear the shirt. It really upsets me when people express my thoughts otherwise.
"The spirit in this squad is fantastic and we have the ability and mentality to compete on all fronts for silverware. Make no mistake, we are focussed and determined to show that we are capable of achieving great things together."
