Former President Bill Clinton poked fun Thursday at his reputation as Democrats' "campaigner-in-chief" during a political swing through New Hampshire.
"I feel like an old racehorse in a stable, and people just take me out and put me on the track and slap me on the rear to see if I can get around one more time," Clinton told an audience of more than 1,200 at a fundraiser for New Hampshire's all-female slate of Democratic candidates for Congress and governor.
The former president talked up Reps. Carol Shea-Porter and Annie Kuster, Gov. Maggie Hassan and Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, all of whom are defending their seats this midterm election cycle.
"I'm really quite comfortable being here campaigning for women and taking orders," he said. "It's like being at home."
Clinton and his wife have a fondness for New Hampshire. In each of their presidential runs, both the former president and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton rekindled their flagging presidential campaigns with surprising success in New Hampshire's first-in-the-nation primary.
The Clintons are also known for their close relationship with Democratic Kentucky Senate candidate Alison Lundergan Grimes. Hillary campaigned for their family friend earlier this week, and Bill will make his third appearance for Grimes in the Blue Grass state next week, according to WBKO.
A potential Clinton boost could be beneficial for Grimes, who is trailing Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in recent polls and who no longer enjoys political support from the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee after it pulled out of the state.
On Thursday the former president acknowledged to the audience that Americans live in an "unsettled time," but argued Democratic candidates could best confront the country's challenges.
Clinton said the Ebola crisis engulfing West Africa and the spread of the terror group ISIS had affected Americans' world view.
"People are unsettled but they're not buying what the other guys are selling -- partly because of who's selling it," Clinton said. "They're trying to get you to stop thinking. They want you to cast resentment votes."
He continued a theme of railing against third-party groups spending millions in political campaigns.
"If we can fix this political dysfunction, there is nothing to hold us back," he said. "If you liked what happened when I was president, I'm telling you it could be way better than that going forward."
