Spanish champions Barcelona began 2011 with an 11th successive league victory on Sunday night to move five points clear of title rivals Real Madrid.
Young winger Pedro Gonzalez, standing in for the absent Lionel Messi, scored both goals in the 2-1 victory over Levante while World Cup winner Xavi equaled the Catalan club's all-time appearance record of 549 matches.
After a scoreless first half in which Barcelona struggled to break down the Valencia side's defense, Gonzalez broke the deadlock two minutes into the second period as he did well to make space inside the penalty and fire in a deflected low shot from Daniel Alves' agonizingly delayed pass.
With Messi allowed to take an extended winter holiday, the 23-year-old continued to make the most of his starting chance by adding his eight league goal this season in the 59th minute after Brazilian right-back Alves delivered a better-judged low cross into his path.
Messi to miss Barcelona's 2011 opener
Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola was also without the services of injured captain Carles Puyol and the suspended Gerard Pique, and his depleted defense had to withstand a determined Levante fightback after Stuani's superb left-foot volley reduced the deficit with 10 minutes to go.
The 30-year-old Xavi, who made an all-Barcelona three-man shortlist for the FIFA Ballon d'Or award to be named this month, matched the milestone set by defender Migueli 20 years ago.
"It is an honor for Xavi, a home-bred player, to have worn the Barca shirt so many times," club president Sandro Rosell said.
"Xavi has won everything and he represents the Barca values: effort, loyalty, work and heart. Loyalty is a difficult value to find, and what Xavi has done for Barca is extraordinary."
Levante, who have not beaten Barcelona in six visits to the Camp Nou, remained just two points above the relegation despite a marked improvement on the team's last outing of 2010 -- an 8-0 drubbing by Real Madrid in the first leg of their last-16 Spanish Cup tie.
Spanish league strike called off
Second-placed Real will be boosted by the long-awaited return of Brazilian midfielder Kaka for Monday night's derby with city rivals Getafe.
Kaka, the second-most expensive signing in the Real squad behind Cristiano Ronaldo, has been sidelined since requiring knee surgery in early August before the start of this season.
"Kaka won't start, he can't yet. He can give us 15 or 20 minutes of his very great quality, but no more," coach Jose Mourinho told reporters on Sunday.
In the day's other 17th-round matches, Valencia consolidated fourth place with a controversial 2-1 win over fellow Champions League hopefuls Espanyol, despite having striker Aritz Aduriz sent off in the 61st minute for hitting Francisco Chica with a flailing arm.
Aduriz scored his seventh league goal this season and his 11th overall to put the home side ahead in the 29th minute, but fifth-placed Espanyol leveled when Portuguese defender Ricardo Costa inexplicably stooped to head Jose Callejon's innocuous cross into his own net in first-half injury time.
Espanyol could not take advantage of their numerical advantage, and Juan Mata nodded the winner in the second minute of time added on despite being in an offside position when Costa headed the ball across the goal.
Sevilla seek to revive their own European qualification bid with a 1-0 victory at home to Osasuna that lifted the club into ninth place -- 23 points behind Barcelona.
Striker Fredi Kanoute scored the only goal in the 36th minute as he raced to the near post to head in a freekick from Jesus Navas.
The defeat left Osasuna in 15th place, four points above the bottom three.
Deportivo La Coruna moved up to 11th place with a 2-1 victory at nine-man Athletic Bilbao, who stayed eighth.
Forward Adrian Alvarez scored in each half for the visitors, the first from the penalty spot on 22 minutes and the second seven minutes after the break.
Both teams were reduced to 10 men by the end of the first period, with Bilbao defender Mikel San Jose receiving a straight red card on 35 and Deportivo midfielder Juan Rodriguez also sent off for a second booking just before the interval.
Striker Fernando Llorente reduced the deficit with four minutes to play with his 11th La Liga strike, but his teammate Ustaritz Aldekoaotalora was also marched for a second yellow card at the end.
Malaga moved out of the relegation zone with a 2-1 win at second-bottom Sporting Gijon, coming from behind with goals from defender Weligton and midfielder Apono, who netted a 59th-minute penalty.
