(CNN)At least a dozen tourists on two cruises that visited the Tunisian capital, Tunis, are among more than 20 people who were gunned down this week at the country's Bardo National Museum, officials said.
Details of the victims in Wednesday's attack have been slow to emerge. Some of the bodies remained unidentified at a morgue, a forensic official said Friday.
Here's what is known so far:
Among the first victims to be named was Briton Sally Adey. The UK Foreign Office confirmed her identity.
She was a 57-year-old retired solicitor who was on a dream vacation with her husband, Robert, Britain's Telegraph newspaper reported. The couple were married in 1984 and have two children -- Molly, a 20-year-old university student, and Harry, a 23-year-old musician, the newspaper said.
Julia Holden, a close friend of the Adeys, gave a statement to CNN that said, "Sally Adey was a much loved daughter, wife and mother. The family are devastated by her loss. They are also saddened for others who have lost people they love, and for those who have been hurt."
Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said consular staff were helping Adey's family.
"The extremists, the terrorists, they hate democracy," UK Prime Minister David Cameron said. "They hate the idea that people should be able to choose their own government. But we must not let democracy, freedom, the rule of law, the things that we hold dear and people in Tunisia hold dear -- we must not let them be defeated or undermined by these extremists and terrorists.
"That is the battle we are engaged in, but I'm confident, if we stick to our values, we will win through."
Two more victims were named as Spanish couple Antoni Cirera Perez and Dolores Sanchez Rami.
They were on a cruise that stopped in Tunis. Francisco Cabezas, a sportswriter with the newspaper El Mundo, wrote that his neighbors for eight years had loved children and walking in the mountains. Perez loved Formula 1 races.
The sportswriter wrote that he recently invited the couple over to meet his baby daughter, Adria.
They were ecstatic to hear the cries of a baby, he said. Perez instructed him softly, "Let her cry, that is what she has to do."
President Francois Hollande, who said he stood firm with Tunisia, confirmed that three French citizens were killed and seven others wounded.
He told reporters at an EU Council meeting in Brussels, Belgium, that two of the wounded were in serious condition. The five who are slightly hurt are expected to return shortly to France.
Bruno Masarotto, a spokesman for the Town Hall of Aussillon, in southern France, confirmed that Jean-Claude Tissier, a former municipal councilor for Aussillon, was one of the French citizens killed.
Tissier, 71, was a hairdresser and had two sons, one of whom is deceased, he said.
Fellow hairdresser Serge Fournes said he and Tissier were part of the same theater group. He said it was a "paradox" that his friend, who was passionate about art, should die in a museum.
Fournes said Tissier lived with his girlfriend. Media reports said the couple was on vacation together, but the girlfriend's condition wasn't known.
A second victim was named as Christophe Tinois, 59, from Castelsarrasin, in southern France.
The Castelsarrasin Town Hall confirmed his death and said Tinois had worked with the horse-riding community there. He had at least two daughters.
Friend Jean-Luc Terriers said the girls' mother died about two or three years ago and that Tinois took care of her until the end. He had recently met another woman and they were in Tunis on a cruise, he said. It wasn't clear whether she was hurt in the attack.
The Town Hall has organized a tribute ceremony for Tinois on Saturday morning.
The name of the third French victim has not yet been confirmed.
Two Colombians were killed, Javier Camelo, and his mother, Miriam Martinez Camelo. Javier Camelo also held Australian citizenship.
His father survived the attack. He is a retired Colombian army general.
The family was on a trip to celebrate the son's graduation.
Four of the victims were from the country's northern Piedmont region.
The media office of Turin City Hall named them as: Orazio Conte, 54, a Turin city administration employee; Antonella Sesino, also 54 and a city administration employee; Francesco Caldara, 64, a retiree; and Giuseppina Biella, 70.
A vigil was held Thursday night in Turin to support the families of the victims and stand against terrorism.
In a telegram from the Vatican, Pope Francis expressed "strong condemnation to all the acts against peace and the holiness of human life."
The Italian Foreign Ministry told CNN that six Italian tourists were wounded.
Russia's Foreign Ministry confirmed the death of a tourist, Galina Potapenko, who was born in 1962, according to Russian state news agency Tass.
Her remains were "found among the earlier unidentified bodies of foreign tourists," it said.
Another tourist, Nadezhda Lukyanova, was being treated for a wound to her arm at a military hospital in Tunis, Tass cited the ministry as saying.
The two women had met up in the southern Russian city of Krasnodar, where Potapenko lived, and traveled to Italy together, the Russian Embassy said earlier, according to Tass. They reached Tunisia on an Italian cruise.
The Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs said three Japanese nationals were killed and three others wounded.
Public broadcaster NHK and other local media said the dead were all women: Machiyo Narisawa, 66; Chiemi Miyazaki, 49; and Miyazaki's 22-year-old daughter, Haruka Miyazaki.
Haruka Miyazaki had just graduated from a university, the media outlets reported.
Two Poles and a Belgian were listed among those killed. Three Tunisians were also among the dead.
CNN's Junko Ogura, Karl Penhaul, Ray Sanchez, Livia Borghese, Jessica King, Claudia Rebaza, Richard Allen Greene, Sandrine Amiel, Emma Burrows and Ashley Fantz contributed to this report.
