Several diplomatic facilities were shuttered Friday as many braced for intensified protests over the anti-Islam movie "Innocence of Muslims," as well as recently published cartoons in a French publication of a figure resembling the Prophet Mohammed.
Demonstrations have raged for days as many in the Muslim world are angry about the U.S.-made film that mocks Mohammed and about the French cartoon. And some believe that Friday prayers, a time of protest recently in the Middle East and North Africa, could add fuel to the fire.
Demonstrations started early Friday in Pakistan. Developments include:
U.S. officials appear less certain of events ahead of Libya attack
Protesters set blaze in Pakistan
Protesters against the film and the cartoon in Peshawar, Pakistan, set fire to two movie theaters Friday morning, killing one person and injuring dozens, officials said.
Firefighters extinguished one blaze in about 90 minutes but were not able to get to the other fire, said Nadir Shah, a fire brigade official.
"We were informed by the police that the two cinemas had been set ablaze by rioters, and so we responded immediately," Shah said.
At least 25 people were injured, three of them critically, said Majid Qureshi, a doctor at a local hospital. A member of the media was also shot in killed in the protest, Qureshi said.
Peshawar police said four policemen were also injured.
Crowds of protesters were reported in Islamabad, and CNN affiliate Geo TV reported protests in Rawalpindi and Karachi.
Slain ambassador Stevens worried about security threats in Libya
Children chant 'Death to America'
The protests come a day after about 100 small children in Karachi repeated anti-American slogans during a protest in the coastal Pakistani city, a police official said.
Video showed children repeating an adult voice that said "Death to America" and "Any friend of America is a traitor."
"Punish the blasphemer," children chanted Thursday. One placard read, "Shut down website of blasphemous film."
The film reference is to "Innocence of Muslims," which mocks Mohammed as a womanizer, child molester and killer. A 14-minute trailer for the movie was first posted online in July, though it wasn't until this month that it was recognized globally.
Since September 11, Muslims have staged a wave of protests in more than 20 countries, decrying the film and the nation in which it was privately produced, the United States.
The children in Karachi -- seemingly between the ages of 6 and 8 -- demonstrated across from the Karachi Press Club, said Ghulam Qadir, a city police official charged with keeping track of all demonstrations at the club.
The event was not formal or planned, so authorities didn't know ahead of time it would happen, he said. In general, Pakistani parents are not informed about every event organized by a school.
At least four teachers accompanied the children to the demonstration, Qadir said. There did not appear to be any parents there.
Facilities close in Indonesia
The U.S. Embassy in Jakarta, U.S. Consulate General in Surabaya, U.S. Consular Agency in Bali and two other facilities will be closed Friday because of the "potential for significant demonstrations that might be held in front of these facilities." officials said in a news statement. There were protests in Indonesia last week.
About 100 demonstrators gathered last Tuesday near a U.S. diplomatic facility in Medan, Indonesia, the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta said.
Opinion: Protests are as mindless as anti-Islam film
German Embassy to close in Sudan
The German Embassy in Sudan's capital city of Khartoum will be closed Friday as authorities anticipate protests over the cartoon published in French magazine Charlie Hebdo, state-run Ashorooq TV reported.
"Security measures have been tightened at other diplomatic missions abroad," Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle said.
Tunisian authorities ban all demonstrations Friday
Seeking to avoid a repeat of what happened one week earlier, Tunisia's Interior Ministry banned all demonstrations Friday, the state-run Tunisian News Agency (TAP) reported, citing a statement from the ministry.
The report said the protest ban is "in accordance with the provisions of the state of emergency" that has been in place since the ouster January of its longtime president, Zine el Abidine Ben Ali.
The statement refers to "calls launched via social networks" to demonstrate over the Charlie Hebdo cartoons. And it comes a week after four protesters died and 49 were wounded during an assault on the U.S. Embassy in the capital of Tunis, TAP previously reported, citing Souad Sadraoui, interim general director of Charles Nicolle Hospital.
Presidential spokesman Adnene Mansar denounced Charlie Hebdo's publication of the cartoons as a "deliberate insult," adding that "some circles are deliberately seeking to stir up tension in relations binding the Muslim and Western worlds."
"We should not fall in the trap of provocation, we should rather denounce these acts by peaceful means," Mansar said, according to a TAP report.
In another TAP report, National Constituent Assembly Speaker Mustapha Ben Jaafar said that the bloody September 14 protests "do not reflect the mood of the moderate and tolerant Tunisian people."
"Political, ideological and religious violence is (no) longer tolerated in present-day Tunisia," Jaafar said in Strasbourg in eastern France, calling abiding by the "rule of law ... an absolute priority."
Actress in anti-Islam film files lawsuit against filmmaker
CNN's Amir Ahmed, Shaan Khan and Reza Sayah contributed to this report.
