(CNN Student News) -- October 29, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Indonesia • Haiti
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARMEN SMITH (DOROTHY): The city of Leeds, Alabama.
CARSYN WHITEHEAD (TIN MAN): Home of the Mighty GreenWave.
CARMEN SMITH (DOROTHY): I'm Dorothy!
CARSYN WHITEHEAD (TIN MAN): I'm the Tin Man!
ALLYSON BROWN (COWARDLY LION): I'm the Cowardly Lion!
STEPHANI PAYNE (SCARECROW): And I'm the Scarecrow!
ALL: And you are about to enter the wonderful world of the wizard Carl Azuz and CNN Student News!
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: All right, forget Fridays. That was awesome! Thank you guys so much for submitting that! We've got 10 minutes of commercial-free headlines before we hit the yellow brick road, so let's go ahead and get rolling!
First Up: Midterm Elections
AZUZ: Four days! That's all the time that midterm candidates have left to convince Americans to vote for them. Win or lose in next Tuesday's midterm elections, running for office comes at a price. You've got to produce TV ads, you've got to make signs, pay a staff. All of that adds up. Dana Bash takes us out on the campaign trail to look at the money trail and see how much is being spent and where it's all coming from.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
DANA BASH, CNN SENIOR CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Sure, there's a lot of money flowing in this year's election. But exactly how much being spent is mind blowing: $4 billion dollars. To put $4 billion in context, that's enough to send about 80,000 students to Princeton for a year. It could buy every person in America three Big Macs with fries at McDonald's. Four billion is far more than the $2.85 billion spent in the last midterm election in 2006, and dwarfs the $1.61 billion spent little more than a decade ago in 1998. OpenSecrets.org compiled the figures in a new report.
SHEILA KRUMHOLZ, CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS: The stakes are so high this cycle that it's not surprising that there's an intensity to this cycle that was perhaps reduced or missing in the last cycles.
BASH: Though much of the four billion is spent by candidates themselves, an eyepopping amount is coming from outside candidates' campaigns; political parties and independent groups. $430 million dollars in overall outside spending. Only $31 million was spent in 2002, less than a decade ago.
And despite Democrats' complaints about being outspent, when it comes to political parties, Democrats are winning. All told, the Democratic Party has raised $782 million dollars. A lot more than the Republican Party, at $515 million. But GOP outside groups, with ads like this, are making up for that gap and then some. Although Democratic groups are catching up, they're being outspent by GOP counterparts 2-1.
Another fascinating 2010 trend: key industries moving campaign cash from Democrats to Republicans. Take the health care sector. When the president took office, two thirds of its dollars were going to Democrats. Since health care passed, the industry is giving 60% to Republicans. The same goes for money from Wall Street and the energy sector. Just last year, both gave mostly to Democrats. Now, 67% of Wall Street money goes to Republicans. The energy sector: 74% to Republicans.
KRUMHOLZ: I think they've got their finger in the air. I think they're looking at the changing poll numbers and seeing that the Republicans have a clear shot at taking the majority, particularly in the House.
(END VIDEO)
Indonesia Disasters
AZUZ: Following up on some international headlines for you now, beginning in Indonesia. Earlier this week, the nation suffered through an earthquake, a tsunami -- a giant ocean wave caused by the earthquake -- and a volcanic eruption. Officials are trying to get help to the victims of these natural disasters, but that's been tough with all the disasters they've had to deal with. Plus, Indonesia is made up of thousands of islands, and some of those are hard to reach. Here, you can see a plane dropping aid in one of the areas that was affected. Other groups are using boats, but those deliveries can take hours. Some of the most immediate needs: clean water, food, blankets and medical attention.
Cholera Outbreak
AZUZ: In Haiti, officials are trying to figure out what started an outbreak of cholera. They're testing waste and sewage water for the bacteria that causes the disease. The outbreak, meanwhile, is getting worse. Workers are trying to fight it. One of the problems in that fight is that a lot of people in Haiti are living in tents after January's earthquake. They need medical supplies to survive, but some people can't get them. Dr. Sanjay Gupta is in Haiti trying to find out why.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: How could this have happened? That's what Julie Santos wants to know.
JULIE SANTOS, MEDICAL RELIEF WORKER: You have someone there, someone here. Let's connect the dots.
GUPTA: She's talking about trying to contain the outbreak of cholera. Hundreds have died, thousands still in need of treatment.
This is where you're told to come get supplies. You arrive here, and if there's patients waiting, what happens?
SANTOS: Well, there are patients waiting.
GUPTA: There's patients waiting for these supplies?
SANTOS: Yes, when we were sending them out to the hospitals out in Saint Marc.
GUPTA: Where patients are literally begging for hydration, clean water, the cheapest of supplies. And yet medical relief worker Julie Santos still waits for hours for her paperwork to be approved before she can get the supplies. I wanted to try and understand myself.
Promise warehouse, a World Health Organization facility, has the largest stockpile of supplies here in Haiti. What people have been waiting for, for hours outside and days in hospitals is this: pallets of I.V. fluids; literally, life-saving stuff to treat these patients with cholera, thousands of them. But it's not just that pallet. You take a look at this whole warehouse, full, despite what's happening here in Haiti.
CHRISTIAN MORALES, PAN AM HEALTH ORGANIZATION/WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION: If we send everything that we have here today, tomorrow we cannot answer for 800,000 cases in Port-au-Prince.
GUPTA: Christian Morales has the enormous task of helping figure out who gets the supplies and when.
Did it go fast enough?
MORALES: They, they, I think in every operation like this, you can do things better. And there's a lot of lessons to be taken from this. And the country needs to be prepared for what is coming, because the likelihood of spreading of this epidemic is very high.
GUPTA: That's something we heard over and over. This epidemic is by no means over.
(END VIDEO)
Just the Facts
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Just the Facts! The Great Depression was the longest and worst economic crisis in U.S. history. It started in 1929 and lasted around a decade. During this period, unemployment climbed to more than 25%, thousands of American banks failed, and U.S. industrial production was cut almost in half. The Depression was felt around the world and led to significant changes in economic theories and policies.
This Day in History
AZUZ: A major event that helped plunge the U.S. into the Great Depression happened on this very day in history: October 29th, 1929. Or as a lot of people know it, Black Tuesday. Wall Street, the stock market crashed, and hard. More than 16 million shares of stock were traded. Stock tickers, the machines that people used to read stock prices, couldn't keep up with all the trading. They fell hours behind. Billions of dollars were lost on Black Tuesday, and thousands of investors were completely wiped out.
Shoutout
JOHN LISK, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mr. Gardner's U.S. studies classes at Indian Valley High School in Gnadenhutten, Ohio! The word "tuition" can be traced back to what language? Is it: A) Greek, B) Roman, C) Latin or D) Aramaic? You've got three seconds -- GO! Tuition, what you pay for instruction, comes from Latin. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Cost of College
AZUZ: The word "increase" comes from latin, too. And that is what tuition is doing right now; it's going up. Probably not a big surprise. The cost of college has been increasing for years. What's interesting is that tuition at public schools is going up faster than it is at private schools. A lot of that has to do with states struggling financially. The higher tuition costs help make up for money that schools aren't getting from their states. Look at the numbers here. In-state tuition at a four-year public school is around $7,600 per year. That's up nearly 8 percent from last year. At a four-year private school, tuition is a little more than $27,000 per year. That's up 4.5 percent from last year.
Facebook Chat Promo
AZUZ: You see this guy? He could be talking to me on Facebook! So can this young lady right here. You all can! On Monday, I will be live at Facebook.com/cnnstudentnews in the school year's very first Facebook conversation we're having! You post your questions to our wall, I'll answer as many as I can as fast as I can! The date is Monday, November 1st, 6:30 p.m. Eastern. The address: Facebook.com/cnnstudentnews.
Before We Go
AZUZ: Now, before we go today, you always want to try your best in any race. But you might want to give it a little something extra in this one. You're gonna need to make sure to stay ahead of the rest of the contestants. Unless you want to be eaten by zombies! These guys take that "walking dead" nickname pretty literally. More than 200 ghouls gathered for this zombie walk in Kentucky last week.
Goodbye
AZUZ: Organizing that many zombies in one place takes a lot of brains. But no matter witch costume you wear or whether you're just planning on goblin up candy, it ghost without saying that we wish you happy and safe Halloween. I'm Carl Azuz, for CNN Student News! (laughs)
