The task facing Agnieszka Radwanska in her first Grand Slam final is a daunting one, because in the opposite corner is Serena Williams, who'll be gunning for a 14th major singles titles.
Radwanska, the No. 3 seed from Poland, defeated Angelique Kerber 6-3 6-4 on Centre Court to book her place in a showpiece final for the first time in her fledgling career.
And her opponent will be 30-year-old Williams, who also recorded a straight sets win, disposing of the No. 2 seed Victoria Azarenka 6-3 7-6.
Williams has won four singles crowns at the All England Club, the last of them coming in 2010, and powered past Azarenka, from Belarus, firing down 24 aces and 45 winners.
By reaching her seventh Wimbledon final, she becomes the first 30-year-old to do so since 22-time Grand Slam winner Steffi Graf in 1999.
"I've been working so hard, I really wanted it," she said in a post-match interview.
"She was playing well and I got a little tight in the second set. I was looking too far in the future. I was so close, but I can't do that. I was happy to get through that second set tie-break."
Williams will go into Saturday's final the favorite given her experience and her head-to-head record against Radwanska -- she hasn't dropped a set in their two meetings to date
Serena can now boast 85 aces in this year's tournament, second only to German quarterfinalist Philipp Kohlschreiber, who has 98 to his name.
Williams' performance against Azarenka was made all the more impressive by the fact that she played two doubles matches with sister Serena on Wednesday.
Radwanska won on her Grand Slam semifinal debut to become Poland's first major finalist for 75 years.
The 23-year-old and German Kerber are firm friends off the court but Radwanska told reporters she had to put personal feelings aside in pursuit of her Grand Slam goal.
"I'm so happy, it's amazing. I played very good today," Radwanska said. "It's always tough against Angie. We are very good friends but of course on court we were both fighting for the final.
"I think we were both a bit nervous in the beginning, your hand is shaking a bit, but after a couple of games I relaxed.
"This is what I dreamed of since I was a kid. Everyone wants to reach a Grand Slam final. It is the best two weeks of my career."
Kerber, who defeated her friend and fellow German Sabine Lisicki in the quarterfinal, said she had lost to the better player.
"She played very well today. I gave my best, but she was better," Kerber said. "I was maybe one or two steps slower. I think that made the difference.
"My plan was to be aggressive, but she moved very well and didn't make many mistakes, so it was really tough.
"Actually it was a great tournament for me. I'm in the semis here in Wimbledon. Sure, I'm a little bit disappointed, but it's ok."
