December 12, 2013
On Thursday, CNN Student News gives viewers a ground-level view of the tension on the streets of Ukraine's capital, and we explain why many Ukrainians are not protesting. After following up on some recent stories, we reveal the 2013 TIME Person of the Year, and we discuss why some people preferred the runner-up. Plus, we meet a young entrepreneur and a homeless man who teamed up to develop an environmental app.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might other news organizations cover TIME's Person of the Year? Should they? Explain.
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Pope Francis
2. mobile app
3. vaccine
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. According to the report, why is Ukraine politically divided? What is the capital of Ukraine? What happened during recent protests there?
2. What did three New York courts decide regarding an effort to get chimpanzees some of the same rights as humans? What action does the Nonhuman Rights Project say it will take next?
3. Describe the rapport between software engineer Patrick McConlogue and software developer Leo Grand. What is the purpose of the app he developed?
Discussion Questions:
1. What are your thoughts on TIME's Person of the Year for 2013? What benefits and risks might come with choosing a "person of the year"? What would be your criteria for your person of the year? Whom would you select?
2. What is your opinion of what Merrill Newman said about a statement he gave in North Korea?
3. What characteristics of homeless coder Leo Grand stand out to you? Why do you think he chose to develop an app aimed at helping the environment? If you could develop a mobile app, what would it do?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
EuropeUkraine
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
