(CNN Student News) -- April 9, 2014
This Wednesday, CNN Student News discusses the issue of equal pay, and we dive into the rugged topography of the ocean floor. Less than two weeks before the 2014 Boston Marathon, we report on how a victim of last year's terrorist bombings has recovered with the support of her city. We also explore how electrical stimulation is helping people who are paralyzed. And we just can't put off a report about how procrastination may be in people's genes!
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What reliable sources could you seek out for information on specific job salaries?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. equal pay
2. Boston Marathon
3. procrastination
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is an executive order? What executive orders did President Obama sign yesterday regarding equal pay? In what way are these orders limited? Who would have to approve a law that went beyond the limits of an executive order? When were laws regarding equal pay first passed? According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, on average, how much does a woman working full-time earn for every dollar a man earns in the U.S.? How can the income gap vary by profession?
2. According to the video, why is optimism fading in the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? How far into the water would search vehicles have to travel to find wreckage? What do we know about the ocean's terrain? How does sound travel differently in water? What factors affect sound in the water? How might the cold water temperatures help investigators?
3. What tragedy occurred at last year's Boston Marathon? How has her city helped survivor Adrianne Haslet-Davis come through this tragedy? What are some of the experiences that have helped her?
4. How is electrical stimulation allowing Dustin Shillcox to do things he was physically unable to do? How does the implanted device work? What are its limitations? According to the neuroscientist in the video, why is this a promising approach?
5. What does it mean to procrastinate? What does a recent University of Colorado Boulder study say about the tendency to procrastinate? What did the study find about people who tend to procrastinate? What are some ways to avoid procrastinating?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that in some professions, there are inequalities in pay for women and men? How do you think this could be addressed? Do you think the president's executive orders effectively address the inequality? Explain. Why do you think he announced these actions at this point in time?
2. In the aftermath of the Boston Marathon bombings, we heard the phrase "Boston Strong." What do you think this means? Has your community or neighborhood ever faced a tragedy or natural disaster? If so, how did members of the community support each other in time of need?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
