Calling all Elizabeth Gallaghers in Canada: Would you like a free trip around the world?
Toronto resident Jordan Axani, 28, is looking for a woman with the same name as his ex-girlfriend to take a couple of airline tickets off his hands. Axani posted on Reddit that he booked this "fairly wicked" trip in March when he and the original Elizabeth Gallagher were still together.
After they broke up, he didn't want the tickets to go to waste.
"Anyone familiar with with the archaic system that is modern air travel will know that a name change on a ticket is damn near impossible," he wrote on the site.
If you're lucky enough to be Canadian and have the name Elizabeth Gallagher, here is your itinerary:
December 21: NYC to Milan
December 28: Prague to Paris
December 29: Paris to Bangkok
January 7: Bangkok to New Delhi
January 8: New Delhi to Toronto
Oh, and if you want to stay a few extra days in India, that's an option too, Axani says.
"I am not looking for anything in return. I am not looking for companionship, romance, drugs, a trade, or to take selfies with you in front of the Christmas Market in Prague," he wrote.
"If you feel compelled to toss me a couple hundred bucks, great. Really the only thing I ask for is that you enjoy this trip and that it bring you happiness."
Better hurry, though. Axani says he has received thousands of emails from around the world in response to his Reddit post, including "dozens of emails from Elizabeths who are Canadian." No word on how he's going to make the final selection. There's probably not enough time before the trip to do it "Survivor" style.
The real question is whether it's possible for another Elizabeth Gallagher to travel under a ticket purchased for Axani's ex.
Airline policies typically forbid the transfer of tickets, but in this case, how would they know? Axani says he booked it on Priceline using Elizabeth's first and last name only (no middle name). And we know security agents at the airport generally don't check birth dates, which are required to purchase a ticket.
CNN has reached out to the Canadian Air Transport Security Authority to find out whether they have any security measures in place that would prevent Elizabeth Gallagher 2.0 from traveling.
