The man accused of killing a 9-year-old Indiana girl allegedly told police he beat her in the head with a brick, dismembered her body and stored parts of it in his freezer, according to court documents released Tuesday.
Michael L. Plumadore, 39, is charged with one count of murder in the death of Aliahna Lemmon, whose remains were found Monday night. She had been missing since Friday.
Plumadore, described as a family friend, was being held without bond Tuesday after his initial court appearance. A hearing is scheduled for Friday.
Allen County Sheriff Ken Fries told HLN's Nancy Grace on Tuesday night that comments by Plumadore during the investigation indicated he was key to solving the case.
In the probable cause affidavit released Tuesday, investigators with the Allen County Sheriff's Department said Plumadore eventually admitted striking the girl repeatedly in the head with a brick while she stood on the front steps of his mobile home in the early hours of December 22.
He stored the body in garbage bags in a freezer at his house until evening, according to the affidavit, when he allegedly began to dismember it with a hacksaw.
Plumadore allegedly told investigators he threw parts of the body in a nearby commercial trash bin, but kept the head, hands and feet in his freezer, according to the document.
The document does not disclose a motive for the girl's death. An autopsy was conducted, but Fries did not disclose the findings.
Amber Story, the girl's grandmother, had described Plumadore as a neighbor and close family friend.
She said Aliahna and her two sisters were staying with Plumadore for about a week while Aliahna's mother recovered from the flu.
Prior to the suspect's arrest, Story said she believed the girl could have sleepwalked out of Plumadore's Fort Wayne home early Friday morning and been taken. She said Aliahna suffered from partial hearing loss and partial blindness and has gotten out of her home while sleepwalking before.
Fries cited "small inconsistencies" in Plumadore's pre-arrest statements. Investigators did not believe the sleepwalking scenario, the sheriff told Grace.
The sheriff said the case was an "emotional roller coaster," with officials initially hoping Aliahna would be found alive.
CNN's Deanna Proeller and Rick Martin contributed to this report.
