Carlos Tevez will face disciplinary action from Manchester City after the Argentina striker's apparent refusal to come on as a substitute during a European Champions League match with Bayern Munich.
City said in a statement on Wednesday that Tevez, 27, had a case to answer in relation to "breach of contract", having conducted an investigation into the events which occurred during the club's 2-0 defeat at the Allianz Arena on September 27.
The former club captain was suspended by City following the incident, but the statement also confirmed Tevez was expected to return to training with manager Roberto Mancini's team on Thursday.
Tevez strike is sad for soccer
"The club has now reached a stage in its investigation where it has concluded that there is a case for Carlos Tevez to answer of alleged breaches of contract," read the statement on City's official website.
"Accordingly, the club has informed him that he will face disciplinary proceedings and the hearing will be convened shortly. Carlos will be required to report to Roberto Mancini for training on Thursday."
British newspaper The Guardian reported every player and coach interviewed during City's investigation refused to back-up Tevez's claims that the events in Munich were the result of a "misunderstanding" between himself and Italian coach Mancini.
The publication goes on to claim Tevez will be hit with a six-week fine, which could be as much as $2.3 million dollars given the former Corinthians star's alleged $392,000-per-week wages.
The multi-million dollar figure would represent the largest sanction ever handed to a footballer in Britain.
Tevez denied he had refused to take to the pitch against Bayern, saying in his own statement following the match with the German outfit: "I wish to state that I never refused to play.
"There was some confusion on the bench and I believe my position may have been misunderstood. Going forward I am ready to play when required and to fulfil my obligations."
Tevez suspended by Manchester City
One-time West Ham forward Tevez has been consistently linked with a move away from City over the past 12 months, after handing in a transfer request in December 2010.
The former Boca Juniors players also saw a move back to Corinthians fall through in July, with the Brazilian outfit claiming there was insufficient time to complete the deal before the close of the transfer window.
Tevez is yet to score for City this season having been their top marksman last campaign with 20 English Premier League goals.
The Citziens return to domestic action this weekend, with Aston Villa visiting the Etihad Stadium on Saturday.
