Chelsea coach Carlo Ancelotti has dismissed reports he is about to quit the English Premier League champions.
Newspaper speculation on Monday claimed the Italian was on the verge of walking out of Stamford Bridge after a turbulent few weeks at the London club.
Chelsea have lost three of their last four matches and the club sacked Ancelotti's assistant Ray Wilkins earlier this month, sparking speculation over his position.
It had been claimed the 51-year-old contacted the League Managers' Association on Sunday night to discuss his position.
But at a press conference ahead of Chelsea's Champions League tie with Slovakian side MSK Zilina on Tuesday, Ancelotti said the rumors were "totally untrue".
"I don't know if it is enough to clarify my position today to close this rumor and speculation," began the 51-year-old. "These rumors are totally untrue, I don't know why this rumor came out today in the papers.
"The LMA (League Managers' Association) called me last night to understand what was happening, but I was at home. These rumors are totally untrue.
"I have my contract until 2012 here in this club, I said a lot of times I would like to stay here, that I love this club, I love these players and have a lot of confidence in these players and this squad so there is no reason to change my idea.
"I said before my aim is to stay in this club, this country, this atmosphere for a long time. I think it depends on me. In the last year I did a good job and this year I would like to do the same. My aim is to stay here, I don't want to say like Ferguson because I think it is impossible, but my aim is this. I would like to stay here."
The departure of Wilkins, who played for the club for six years, coupled with a poor run of form has put pressure on Ancelotti, even though Chelsea remain top of the Premier League table.
But the Italian, who led former club AC Milan to two Champions League titles, insisted the scrutiny that comes with his job is something he enjoys.
"There is no reason to think about my position. My position is very clear, I am the coach and I have to train my players and maintain the club to the best level," he added.
"This moment is not so good on the pitch and we have to do better there, we have to stay in focus on this because this is the problem. The problem is on the pitch.
"I had a lot of experience in my career, every year is the same. Sometimes the coach is in trouble because the team doesn't reach the results, but this is my life and I like this life."
