(CNN Student News) -- March 25, 2014
On today's show, we cover a highly contagious and deadly outbreak of Ebola virus in West Africa, and we report on how officials are trying to contain it. After some investment trivia, we discuss the IPO of the makers of an incredibly popular online game. And we introduce you to a CNN Hero who wants to make sure that everyone in America has a bed to sleep on.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
In what ways might news media and social media help to promote public health?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Ebola
2. IPO
3. "freemium"
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What tragic announcement did Malaysian officials make yesterday regarding Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? How did some of the grieving families react to this announcement? What do officials say are their sources of information? Where do they believe that the plane crashed?
2. What is Ebola? On what continent have most Ebola outbreaks taken place? In what African country is the disease appearing for the first time? Why are people there afraid? What is Doctors Without Borders doing to fight the epidemic?
3. What is an IPO? What company that produces the online game Candy Crush is launching its IPO this week? How does this game generate revenue? What percentage of King Digital's revenue comes from Candy Crush?
4. Who is Mark Bergel? How does he help families in need? How do the families benefit from the furniture they receive?
Discussion Questions:
1. In your opinion, what is the best way to tell the human side of the story involving Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 while respecting the victims' grieving families?
2. In addition to the medical challenges that a deadly disease like Ebola presents, what challenges might doctors have in preventing the spread of this disease in Guinea? How might they address these challenges?
3. Why do you think that most investments carry a degree of risk? How might you inform yourself about a company before investing in it? If you had the money to buy into a company's IPO, what would you want to know before investing?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
