Sen. Ted Cruz hasn't decided whether he'll be hitting the presidential campaign trail in 2015, but he's scheduled to hit the Passover speaking circuit next year.
Cruz, who has been actively courting major Jewish and pro-Israel donors in recent months, will speak at at least one ritzy Passover getaway this spring in California. Cruz was mistakenly listed as a speaker at four pricey Passover getaways organized by the Prime Hospitality Group, but a rabbi who helped coordinate Cruz's appearance said the Texan senator is only slated to speak at one event.
"Unfortunately it was a mistake on our part," Rabbi Seth Grauer said.
Grauer added that Cruz may speak at an additional Passover event in California or Colorado, but deferred additional comment to Cruz's office. His office has not responded to CNN's request for comment.
Cruz has spoken at length in the past about the need to support Israel and has called a nuclear Iran the top national security threat to the United States. A tea party and evangelical favorite, Cruz is billed as a speaker alongside several leading rabbis and Malcolm Hoenlein, a major player in the pro-Israel lobby and the executive vice chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations.
The event where Cruz is slated to speak is set at the five-diamond St. Regis Monarch Beach Resort in California, where stays range from $5,600 to $11,000 per person for the full 10-day stay, according to the Prime Hospitality Group.
The organization's website bills Cruz as an ardent supporter of Israel, quoting Mort Klein, the President of the right wing pro-Israel group, the Zionist Organization of America.
Cruz's deputy chief of staff Nick Muzin will also speak at the Passover event in California.
Cruz reportedly met with top Jewish donors in New York City in November, according to the New York Observer. He also met privately with casino mogul and Jewish Republican donor Sheldon Adelson in November.
Cruz left the stage at an event celebrating Middle Eastern Christians in September after he was booed for expressing his support for Israel.
"If you will not stand with Israel, then I will not stand with you," Cruz said at the event in September.
