(InStyle.com) -- From the royal wedding to Beyonce's baby bump reveal, this year has been full of major style. Check out these unforgettable moments of 2011.
Beyonce's baby bump reveal
Beyonce made her entrance at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards in August wearing a one-shoulder Lanvin gown while clutching her newly-sprouted baby bump. The mom-to-be later took the stage in a sequined Dolce & Gabbana tux for her performance of "Love On Top." "I want you to feel the love that's growing inside of me," she said before unbuttoning her jacket and patting her belly.
The royal wedding
Over 2 billion people watched the nuptials of Prince William and Catherine Middleton on April 29, and what a wedding it was! The bride emerged in a custom Sarah Burton for Alexander McQueen dress that is forever etched into the memories of millions.
InStyle.com: See Kate Middleton's wedding gown from every angle
J. Lo: Back and better than ever!
After taking time to start a family and live privately, Jennifer Lopez triumphantly returned to the spotlight this year. With a stint as judge of American Idol, a new CD with hit singles, a line with Kohl's, a campaign with Tous, and the #1 spot on People magazine's Most Beautiful People list, this woman won't let anyone get in her way of making it to the top!
Missoni for Target sells out
Missoni's capsule collection for Target caused a shopping frenzy! The 400-piece line made its debut at the opening of a Missoni for Target pop-up shop in New York, but the store had to shut down almost immediately because it completely sold out. After the collection finally made its way to Target.com in September, record-breaking crowds crashed the site, leaving shoppers to raid their local Target stores and scour eBay for what was left of the zig-zag striped pieces.
The biggest haircut of the year
Even halfway around the world in Madrid, Jennifer Aniston set American beauty, fashion, and entertainment press on fire when she debuted her new above-the-shoulders haircut during a press call for Just Go With It in late February. Fans debated if they liked it or not, and Aniston's legacy of trendsetting styles continued.
InStyle.com: Jennifer Aniston's transformation
Emma Watson ends "Harry Potter" on top!
2011 saw the end of the Harry Potter film franchise, and Emma Watson made sure to go out with a bang! The actress hit the red carpet on her Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 press tour in July in chic cropped hair and a series of dramatic designer looks by Oscar de la Renta, Rafael Lopez and Bottega Veneta (shown).
Pippa: The world's it girl
If the Royal Wedding made Catherine Middleton a Duchess, then it made Pippa Middleton a star. The younger sister and maid of honor to Catherine wowed the world in a form-fitting Alexander McQueen gown for the Royal Wedding, and both the paparazzi and fashion fans have followed her every move since.
InStyle.com: Pippa Middleton's best outfits of 2011
Remembering Elizabeth Taylor
The world lost a screen legend on March 23, when Elizabeth Taylor passed away in Los Angeles at the age of 79. Taylor, an AIDS activist and two-time Academy Award winner, was known for her collection of both jewelry and husbands.
Alexander McQueen breaks records
The Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute in New York houses a fashion exhibition every spring, and this year the late British designer Alexander McQueen was its subject. The exhibition, entitled "Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty," included over 100 pieces from McQueen's archives, spanning from his post-graduate collection in 1992 to his last collection named Angels & Demons, which showed on the runway after his February 2010 death. The exhibition drew 661,509 visitors from May through August, making it the eighth biggest show on record at the Met.
See all of the most memorable style moments of 2011 at InStyle.com.
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
