Two-time runner-up Roger Federer must wait another year before he can win his first Rome Masters title after suffering a shock third-round defeat on Thursday.
The Swiss third seed's French Open build-up suffered a blow when he was beaten by Richard Gasquet for the first time in the last nine meetings between the two players and just his second overall.
The French 16th seed triumphed 4-6 7-6 (7-2) 7-6 (7-4) in a match lasting two hours 20 minutes as he earned a quarterfinal clash with Czech seventh seed Tomas Berdych at the clay event.
"I had multiple chances. That is how it goes," 16-time grand slam champion Federer told the ATP Tour website after his second loss against a player outside the top three this year.
Djokovic's No. 1 dream is fast becoming reality
"Sometimes it is unfortunate because I was playing well and then it didn't happen at all anymore, so it was a disappointing end to the match.
"But it will not affect my preparation and work for the French Open, I will be fine. I definitely think I should not have lost this match, and that is kind of annoying."
World No. 1 Rafael Nadal bounced back from his poor showing in beating Italian qualifier Paolo Lorenzi in three sets on Wednesday as he disposed of fellow Spaniard Feliciano Lopez.
The five-time Rome champion won 6-4 6-2 in just 86 minutes to set up a quarterfinal against Croatia's Marin Cilic, who beat American 11th seed Mardy Fish 7-6 (8-6) 6-3.
Nadal, seeking a third successive title, must beat Cilic to prevent Novak Djokovic taking his title as the world's top player.
"I had a fever this morning but I feel better now. Certainly I didn't really understand why yesterday I felt slow and without energy, and I understand now better today," said Nadal, whose two-year winning streak on clay was ended by Djokovic in the Madrid final.
"That is that and I am here to fight and to try my best like I have always done. I am ready for everything."
Second seed Djokovic extended his unbeaten run to 34 matches this year with a 6-4 6-1 victory over Stanislas Wawrinka, who he also beat in the 2008 final.
The Serbian, who is closing on John McEnroe's record of 42 straight wins at the start of 1984, needed just 93 minutes to move past the Swiss 14th seed.
Djokovic, who turns 24 on May 22, will face Swedish fifth seed Robin Soderling in the last eight.
Soderling, the French Open runner-up for the past two years, battled past Spanish ninth seed Nicolas Almagro, winning 6-3 3-6 6-4 in just over two hours.
British fourth seed Andy Murray also moved into the quarterfinals with a 6-2 6-3 win over Italy's Potito Starace.
He will next play unseeded German Florian Mayer, who beat Argentina's Juan Ignacio Chela 7-5 6-4.
If Murray and Djokovic both reach the semis, it will mean a rematch of January's Australian Open final -- which the Serbian won.
Meanwhile, former women's world No. 1 Serena Williams will not make her long-awaited comeback at the French Open, which starts later this month.
The American has not played since winning her 13th grand slam singles title at Wimbledon in June 2010, after which she badly cut her foot in a freak accident in a restaurant.
The 29-year-old, whose only title in Paris came in 2002, was further delayed in returning to action when she suffered a pulmonary embolism in February.
"While I am making good progress, unfortunately I won't be able to compete in Roland Garros," she said in a statement on Thursday.
"I am grateful for every moment I have and the fact that I have returned to the court. I am hopeful that I will be back competing this summer. Thank you all for your continued prayers."
Current No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki reached the quarterfinals in Rome after beating Belgium's Yanina Wickmayer 6-1 7-6 (7-4) on Thursday.
The 20-year-old Dane will next play two-time champion Jelena Jankovic, who was last year's runner-up.
The Serbian fifth seed progressed with a 6-4 2-6 6-2 win over Spain's Anabel Medina Garrigues.
French Open champion Francesca Schiavone came from behind to beat Slovakia's Daniela Hantuchova 3-6 6-2 7-5.
The Italian second seed set up a rematch of the 2010 Roland Garros final with Australian No. 6 Sam Stosur, who defeated Slovenian qualifier Polona Hercog 6-3 6-4.
Chinese fourth seed Li Na booked her place in the last eight with a 6-2 6-1 win over Australia's Jarmila Gajdosova.
The Australian Open runner-up will take on unseeded Hungarian Greta Arn, who battled past Russia's Elena Vesnina 3-6 7-6 (7-3) 7-6 (7-3) in more than three hours as she rallied from 5-3 down in the final two sets and saved two match-points.
Russian seventh seed Maria Sharapova ended the hopes of Israeli No. 10 Shahar Peer as she triumphed 6-2 6-2.
The former world No. 1 will next face third seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus, who overcame Russian No. 16 Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova 6-4 4-6 6-2 in two hours 16 minutes.
