February 27, 2015
This Friday on CNN Student News: A showdown in the U.S. government centers on funding for the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Communications Commission votes to expand its regulation of the Internet, and we take a look at the symptoms and treatments for Seasonal Affective Disorder. Plus, our coverage of legal topics defines the U.S. juvenile justice system.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. Name one of the two dwarf planets at which a NASA spacecraft is scheduled to arrive this year.
2. In what African nation, whose capital is Monrovia, did thousands of children recently return to school for the first time in six months?
3. What atmospheric phenomenon, measured in micrograms per cubic meter, coated parts of the Korean Peninsula early this week?
4. In what country is the city of Mannheim, where every house is now connected to a smart energy network?
5. Who is the leader of the U.S. Federal Reserve?
6. On what Japanese island would you find Mount Suribachi, where part of a bitter battle took place between U.S. and Japanese forces during World War II?
7. Home to about 20 million people and facing a historic drought, what city is the largest in Brazil?
8. Name the British theater where a rare copy of William Shakespeare's collected works is going on display following its discovery in France.
9. What part of the U.S. government voted 3-2 on Thursday to expand its control over the Internet?
10. What is the acronym for a type of depression that typically affects people in the winter months but usually goes away in the spring and summer?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
