A valuable necklace was stolen from a party at the Cannes Film Festival, the second major jewelry theft at the event this year, police said Thursday.
Jeweler de Grisogono said the necklace, which was part of a collection making its debut, was worth 2 million euros ($2.6 million).
The company said it was the first theft in the company's 20-year history.
Police in Nice, France, confirmed the heist but said the necklace was only worth 1 million euros ($1.3 million U.S.).
Police in Cap d'Antibes, the posh resort town where the party was held, gave a third figure -- $1 million (773,000 euros).
The de Grisogono statement said it had hired more than 80 security guards for the event at the Cap Eden Roc hotel in Cap d'Antibes, just east of Cannes.
On Friday, police in Nice said that more than $1 million in jewels belonging to the Swiss firm Chopard had been stolen from a hotel room in Cannes.
Chopard later said in a statement that the value of the stolen pieces was "far lower than those in the figures circulating in the media."
The theft of the jewels occurred May 16, on the second day of the festival, which runs through May 26.
Commandant Bernard Mascarelli of the Nice police said the jewelry was stolen from a room in the Suite Novotel hotel on Boulevard Carnot in Cannes.
A Chopard employee who was staying in the room left it for several hours to go to dinner, he said. She returned to discover the whole safe containing the jewels had been unscrewed and taken away.
No detailed description of the stolen jewels has been given, but a Chopard spokeswoman said they were not part of the firm's "Red Carpet Collection 2013" and were not due to be worn by any actresses in Cannes.
There was no immediate indication the two thefts were connected.
The annual festival brings together the rich and famous from around the world for movie screenings and glittering parties.
Police: Man who fired blanks on Cannes set 'wanted to change world'
CNN's Laura Smith-Spark, Bharati Naik, Chelsea J. Carter, Pierre Meilhan and Saskya Vandoorne contributed to this report.
