Americans are split over President Barack Obama's latest immigration move, but they've become less sympathetic to immigrants here illegally over the past year, a new nationwide poll finds.
According to the poll, conducted by Quinnipiac University and published Tuesday, just 45 percent of Americans believe Obama should issue an executive order to address the immigration issue if Congress fails to act, while 48 percent oppose such a move.
The number of Americans who believe those here illegally should be allowed to stay and given a path to citizenship has dropped since last November, however — now, only 48 percent believe they should stay, compared to 57 percent who said the same in 2013.
And the number of Americans who say illegal immigrants should leave the U.S. is at an all-time high in the new poll. Thirty-five percent of respondents said they should be required to leave, up from 26 percent last year.
But while Americans might be split on how to tackle the country's immigration problem, they agree on one thing — that shutting down the government is not an appropriate response to Obama's move, a tactic floated by some Republicans.
Americans oppose such a move 68-25 percent.
Still, Obama's unilateral action has likely contributed to his strikingly low approval rating in the survey. With just 39 percent of Americans approving of his job performance in the latest Quinnipiac poll, he's nearing his all-time low approval rating of 38 percent. Fifty-four percent disapprove of the job he's doing.
And Americans now trust Republicans in Congress more to do what's best for the nation than Obama, by 47-42 percent.
While the poll shows a majority of Americans, 51 percent, are happy the GOP has taken over the Senate, two-thirds of the nation expects more gridlock over the next two years, and they're split over who will be to blame. Forty-four percent believe it will be Obama's fault, while 42 percent blame Republicans.
The survey was conducted among 1,623 registered voters from Nov. 18-23 with live interviews via landline and cell phone, and has a margin of error of 2.4 percent.
