Novak Djokovic matched Roger Federer's feat of three successive titles at the Dubai Tennis Championships by crushing the world No. 2 in Saturday's final.
The Serbian, who also beat Federer in the Australian Open semifinals last month on the way to winning his second grand slam, triumphed 6-3 6-3 in one hour and 11 minutes to clinch the 20th ATP Tour crown of his short career.
The 23-year-old, seeded second, claimed the $386,000 first prize as he denied his Swiss opponent a fifth title in Dubai and 68th overall.
"Any time I win against Roger it's a great success because he's such a great player. We all know how mentally strong of a player he is," Djokovic, who trailed 3-1 in the second set, told the ATP Tour website.
"To be able to win against Roger in straight sets as I did tonight is incredible, but I want to keep on going. This match has probably been one of the best that I played this year.
"I feel physically well, fit, mentally motivated to do even more coming up to Indian Wells and Miami where I haven't done well in the last years.
Going into the match, Federer held a 13-7 career advantage over Djokovic and was 3-2 ahead in finals, but the world No. 3 is now unbeaten in 14 matches going back to December's Davis Cup final.
It was Federer's second defeat in a Dubai final, having also lost in 2006 to current No. 1 Rafael Nadal before bouncing back to triumph for the fourth time the following year.
It was only the third time in the event's 19 stagings that the top two seeded players had met in the title match.
"This one has been one of the rather disappointing matches for me against him," Federer said. "I can't play great every time either. So it's been a tough one, but I'm not too disappointed. It's another final for me. I tried tonight -- it just didn't really happen for me."
Meanwhile, women's No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki suffered a surprise defeat to third-ranked Russian Vera Zvonareva in the final of the Qatar Ladies' Open on Saturday.
The Dane went into the match having not dropped a set all week after reclaiming the top spot from Kim Clijsters on the way to winning the title in Dubai, but lost 6-4 6-4 in Doha.
Second seed Zvonareva, the runner-up the last time the tournament was held in 2008, clinched her 11th WTA Tour victory and leveled her head-to-head record against the 20-year-old Dane at 4-4.
"Caroline is No. 1 and playing very well. I was just fighting for every point and trying to go for my shots," Zvonareva told the WTA website.
"This is definitely a special moment for me, especially after that tough match against Daniela (Hantuchova) and another great one against Jelena (Jankovic)."
Wozniacki, who ended 2010 at the top of the rankings before surrendering it briefly to Australian Open champion Clijsters, said she was happy with her week.
"Vera played a great match and a great tournament. I'm happy to be in the finals -- it was another great tournament for me and I always enjoy being back in Doha. I will be back next year for sure.," she said.
