The U.S. State Department on Friday ramped up its warnings urging  Americans not to join other activists in a flotilla, expected to sail  soon, aimed at  challenging Israel's maritime  blockage of the Gaza  strip.
According to  organizers, the flotilla is meant  to commemorate the  one-year anniversary of a similar flotilla that  resulted in a clash in  international waters with Israeli  navy  commandos that left nine people  -- including an American citizen --  dead.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton told reporters  Friday that she didn't think the plan "is useful or productive or  helpful to the people of Gaza."
"We have certainly  encouraged that  American citizens not participate in the flotilla," she  said, "and we are urging  that all precautions be taken to avoid any  kind of  confrontation."
Clinton's comments followed  an even harsher  statement by State Department spokesperson Victoria  Nuland, in which she criticized what she called "irresponsible and  provocative actions that risk the safety of their passengers."
Last May, the Mavi Marmara -- owned by the Turkish  Humanitarian Relief Foundation, or IHH -- and five other ships were on  their way to Gaza, carrying humanitarian aid and about 700 activists  from various countries, when Israeli soldiers swarmed aboard it.
Despite  international condemnation, an independent Israeli commission, led by  retired judge Yaakov Turkel, later found that Israeli commandos "acted  professionally and in a measured manner in the face of unanticipated  violence" when they seized the Gaza-bound aid ship.
In  September, the U.N. Human Rights Council found Israeli forces "committed  serious violations of international law" in the raid and suggested that  six of the civilian deaths were "consistent with ... an arbitrary and  summary execution."
Israel called the report "as biased and as one-sided as the body that has produced it."
The  U.S. State Department earlier this week issued a travel warning advisting U.S.  citizens "against traveling to Gaza by any means, including via  sea."
"Previous  attempts  to enter Gaza by sea have been stopped by Israeli  naval  vessels and resulted in the injury, death, arrest, and deportation of   U.S. citizens," the State Department statement said. "U.S. citizens  participating in any effort to  reach Gaza by  sea should understand  that they may face arrest, prosecution, and deportation by  the  government of Israel."
Ali Abunimah, a blogger for  the Electronic Intifada and supporter of the protest, accused  Clinton  of seeming  to "lay the ground -- indeed almost provide a green light --  for an Israeli  military attack on the upcoming Gaza Freedom   Flotilla."
Activists say the blockade is illegal and has worked to undermine Gaza's  already fledgling economy. Israel has promised to block any attempt to  break a blockade that they say is important in keeping weapons from  being delivered to Gaza.
The protesters said they raised funds to   purchase a U.S.-flagged vessel, which they named "The Audacity of Hope,"  a  reference to the best-selling book of the same title by President  Barack Obama.
The boat, they claim, will carry 36  passengers, four crew members, and ten journalists. The  protesters say  they want to "challenge U.S. foreign policy" by providing aid and   supplies directly to the citizens of Gaza, in  spite of Israel's   blockade.
"We encourage all Americans to support our  voyage, and to agitate with the US government and public opinion to  ensure our safe passage to Gaza," wrote Robert Naiman, policy director  at the advocacy group Just Foreign Policy, who said he'll be part of the  flotilla.
The State Department  counters that, if the  activists want to help the citizens of Gaza, there is a better -- and  legal -- way  to do it.
Victoria  Nuland, the  department's spokeswoman, told reporters,  "We've got to use the  channels that are safe, the  channels that are  going to guarantee that  the aid get where it needs to go to  the people  it's intended for."
Clinton  added Thursday that it would be unwise to move toward Israeli waters  and create "a situation in which the  Israelis have the right to defend  themselves."
But these words did not impress Abunimah,  who wrote that "in light of Clinton's statements, if any  blood is  spilled it will not only be on Israeli, but also  American hands."
