English Premier League side Arsenal and Italian Serie A Udinese have been drawn together in the final qualifying round for the European Champions League.
The two-legged tie will see last season's fourth place teams in England and Italy go head-to-head for a place in the group stages of Europe's premier club competition.
Arsene Wenger's Arsenal have never won the Champions League, but have reached the competition proper in each of the last 13 seasons and were beaten by Barcelona in the final in 2006.
Udinese played in the Champions League for the only time in their history during the 2004/05 campaign, when they were eliminated at the group stage.
Wenger will be without France midfielder Samir Nasri and Dutch striker Robin van Persie for the first-leg of the tie.
Van Persie, 27, was sent off during the match with Barcelona in March which saw Arsenal eliminated from last season's tournament, with Nasri handed a one-match ban for improper conduct in the wake of his teammate's dismissal.
French coach Wenger will also be banned from the touchline for the opening match following his reaction to Arsenal's defeat to Barca.
Elsewhere in the draw, four-time European champions Bayern Munich face Swiss Super League runners-up FC Zurich.
Newly-appointed coach Jupp Heynckes will be looking to improve on Bayern's showing in Europe last year, when the 22-time German champions were eliminated by Inter Milan in the round of 16.
Portuguese team Benfica, who have won the European Cup twice in their history, take on Dutch runners-up Twente.
The first legs of the ties will take place across August 16/17, with the return matches to be played across August 23/24.
The draw for the final qualifing round for the Europa League also took place Friday, with the highlight an all-British clash between Premier League Tottenham Hotspur and Scottish Premier League side Hearts.
European Champions League play-off round draw in full:
Wisla Krakow v APOEL
Macabi Haifa v Genk
Dinamo Zagreb v Malmo
FC Copenhagen Viktoria Plzen
BATE Borisov v Sturm Graz
Odense v Villarreal
Twente v Benfica
Arsenal v Udinese
Bayern Munich v FC Zurich
Olympique Lyonnais v Rubin Kazan
