February 10, 2014
Making headlines this Monday on CNN Student News: The U.S. hits its debt limit, the federal government expands its recognition of same-sex marriage, and a company recalls more than 8 million pounds of meat. We also climb aboard a U.S. Navy ship to see how sailors keep diseases at bay.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
When an error happens in a live, televised event, what do you think that the audience should see?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.   unemployment rate
2.   debt ceiling
3.   norovirus
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1.  According to the video, how are the latest jobs numbers a "mixed bag"?
2.  Who is Jack Lew?  According to the video: What is he doing to try to keep the U.S. solvent?  What is the deadline for congressional action? What are the possible consequences if there is no action? Why do many think that Congress will come to some kind of agreement on the debt ceiling?
3.  What steps is the Obama administration taking in support of same-sex marriage? What do some critics have to say about this move?
4.  What is the role of the USDA in food safety?  Why is 8.7 million pounds of meat being recalled?  Have any illnesses been reported?
5.  What is the most common stomach bug a person can get?  According to the video, what are some steps the U.S. Navy takes to prevent the spread of norovirus on its ships?
6.  What happened to the last of the electronic snowflakes that was supposed to turn into an Olympic ring in the Opening Ceremonies? What did Russian television audiences see instead?
Discussion Questions:
1.  According to the video, how high is the U.S. national debt?  What might be some arguments for and against raising the debt ceiling?  If you were a member of Congress, would you vote to raise the debt ceiling?  Why or why not?  Is there any other course of action you would like to see Congress pursue regarding the national debt?  Explain.
2.  What is your opinion of the actions taken by the Obama administration in support of same-sex marriage?  Do you agree or disagree with critics who say that these actions undermine the power of states to regulate marriage?  State your rationale. What other perspectives can you think of on this issue?
3.  Why do you think that disease prevention is so important on a U.S. Navy ship?  In your opinion, what single factor should be credited with a lower incidence of norovirus on military ships versus cruise ships?  When some students at your school come down with a stomach bug, what steps  do you and others take to try to prevent its spread?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
