A third person, identified as a minor girl, died from injuries suffered in the Asiana Airlines crash last week, hospital officials said.
She had been in critical condition at the Bay Area hospital since the July 6 crash, San Francisco General spokeswoman Rachael Kagan said
The hospital didn't release any additional information about her -- including her name, age or ethnicity -- in keeping with her parents' wishes.
"It's a very, very sad day today at San Francisco General Hospital," said Dr. Geoffrey Manley, chief of neurosurgery. "We have all done everything we could."
Q&A: How does an air crash investigation work?
Two others -- both 16-year-old girls from China -- were reported dead soon after the Boeing 777 crash-landed at San Francisco International Airport.
One of those teenagers was hit on the runway by a fire truck, though it's unclear whether she was already dead when she was struck, San Francisco police spokesman Albie Esparza said.
At the time, firefighters were using flame retardant that ended up surrounding areas immediately around the plane with foam, Esparza said.
"When the truck repositioned itself to get a better aim of the fuselage, they discovered the body of the victim in the fresh track from the path of the truck," he added.
The foam was thick enough to cover a body, Esparza noted. Moreover, it is difficult for those in the "industrial-size" fire trucks that responded to crash to see things on the ground, the police spokesman said.
"Right now, we are waiting results from the coroner to determine if she died from the crash or the fire engine going over her," the police spokesman said. "And that will be part of our investigations, like any other case, by our hit-and-run and major accidents investigations teams."
Of the passengers and crew on board, 304 people survived -- 123 of whom walked away relatively unscathed. The others were sent to hospitals.
Opinion: Our terror over flying has cost us
A handful of them remained hospitalized, including six patients at San Francisco General. That hospital's figure includes two adults in critical condition with spinal cord injuries, abdominal injuries, internal bleeding, road rash and fractures.
San Francisco International Airport is also working to get back to normal.
The plane's fuselage was hauled away on flatbed trucks Friday to a remote section of the airport, San Francisco International Airport said in a news release.
On Friday, a Southwest Airlines jet landed on the runway where the crash occurred -- signifying that, for the first time in six days, all four of the airport's runways were operational.
"The tremendous efforts and around-the-clock work of airport staff, government agencies, airline tenants and contractors allowed us to complete all repairs and safety certifications for Runway 28L in a timely and efficient manner," airport director John L. Martin said.
While the wreckage has been hauled away, investigators still have not pinpointed exactly why Flight 214 crashed, or who was to blame.
Did Asiana pilot have enough 777 experience?
An in-depth review of the cockpit voice recorder shows two pilots called for the landing to be aborted before the plane hit a seawall and crashed onto the runway, the head of the National Transportation Safety Board said.
The first internal call by one of the three pilots in the cockpit to abort the landing came three seconds before the crash. A second call was made by another pilot 1.5 seconds before impact, NTSB chief Deborah Hersman said.
The agency has begun wrapping up its investigation at the airport, and crews are cleaning up the debris left by the crash. Investigators turned the runway back over to the airport.
CNN's Chelsea J. Carter, Augie Martin and Ed Payne contributed to this report.
