South Korean golfer In-Kyung Kim retained the lead at the halfway stage of the season-opening LPGA Thailand event on Friday, but is being chased by world No. 1 Yani Tseng and Michelle Wie.
The 22-year-old Kim, seeking her fourth victory in successive years on the top women's circuit, faltered with a one-over-par 73 at Siam Country Club's Old Course but ended the day with a one-shot advantage.
Kim, who finished third in two of last season's four majors, had matched the course record of 63 in her opening round on Thursday.
Taiwan's Tseng carded a 71 in soggy fairway conditions following heavy rain earlier this week, while American Wie joined her on seven-under 137 after a 68.
"I feel exhausted. It's the first event, but it feels like the last event," Kim, who had four bogeys in her opening nine holes, told reporters.
"It was such a difference coming from yesterday when I teed off first and I didn't really expect much. I don't know, I think I was too hard on myself the first nine holes and I couldn't really find a rhythm."
Wie said the greens were drying out in the hot sun.
"I think it's a lot firmer. The greens are very fast. I need to stop hitting it five feet past the holes on my putts," she said.
Americans Paula Creamer and Juli Inkster were tied for fourth on five under, shooting 70 and 73 respectively to be level with Japan's Momoko Ueda (69) and South Korea's Na Yeon Choi (70).
Norway's Suzann Pettersen, who won her first major title last year, was tied for eighth after a 72. Defending champion Ai Miyazato was tied for 25th after a second-round 69.
Meanwhile, Spain's Rafael Cabrera-Bello holds a one-shot lead after the fog-delayed second round of the men's European Tour event in India.
The world No. 125 shot a three-under 69 at the Avantha Masters in New Delhi on Friday to be clear of a bunch of six players at the halfway stage.
Of that group, Thailand's Thongchai Jaidee and Indian Jeev Milkha Singh can both pass his total of eight-under 136 when they complete their final seven holes on Saturday.
World No. 68 Jaidee is the only player in the field ranked inside the top-100.
An incredible nine players shared the lead after the opening round of the PGA Tour's Northern Trust Open in Los Angeles on Thursday.
John Senden set the clubhouse target with a four-under 67 at Riviera Country Club, then was joined by fellow Australians Robert Allenby and Aaron Baddeley, Britain's Martin Laird, Sweden's Carl Pettersson and Americans Spencer Levin, Ben Martin, Bill Haas and J.B. Holmes.
Three-time major winner Padraig Harrington, former world No. 1s Vijay Singh and Fred Couples, plus European Ryder Cup star Luke Donald were in another group of nine on 68.
