A former high school teacher in Virginia was charged Wednesday with transporting and possessing child pornography, a discovery that was made after he was accused of engaging in sexual acts with a 16-year-old male former student, according to court documents.
Kevin Garfield Ricks, 50, was arrested in February at Osbourn High School in Manassas, Virginia, after authorities were notified of the alleged sexual misconduct, according to the criminal complaint filed against him Wednesday in U.S. District Court.
Another student apparently reported the alleged offense to police after seeing a Facebook message from Ricks posted on the 16-year-old's Facebook page that read, "You told me our experience was your first with a guy," according to the complaint.
The 16-year-old student told police that Ricks committed "several sexual acts" on him in December after providing him with "significant quantities of Tequila."
Authorities investigating the allegations seized Ricks' personal belongings, including the personal laptop that he carried from his Virginia home during the week to his home in Maryland on the weekends. The laptop revealed eight images of child pornography, according to the complaint.
The computer also contained an online chat transcript between Ricks and another alleged victim, who accused him of molestation in the mid-'70s at a summer camp for children with disabilities where Ricks worked as a counselor.
Other pornographic images were found at Ricks' home in Federalsburg, Maryland, including some that appear to have been taken in Japan in the late '80s and early '90s, when Ricks worked as an English teacher there. Most of the boys depicted in the images appear to be incapacitated, according to the complaint.
An additional search of Ricks' Maryland home in April turned up "hundreds" of videotapes and still images of child pornography, as well as handwritten journals that "describe sexual acts with a number of conscious and unconscious minor males at a variety of locations," the complaint says.
After his arrest in February, Ricks told detectives that the teachers union had told him that he had been "walking a thin line" after a parent accused him of "stalking" a student he was mentoring at the Huntington Learning Center in Fauqier County, Virginia.
In a written statement provided by his attorney to The Washington Post last week, Ricks said he "will spend the rest of my days seeking forgiveness and atonement."
"It is understandable how some may see me in a negative light, but like other people in this world, I have had many positive accomplishments in my personal life and career. I would like people to consider those as well," the statement said, according to the Post.
Ricks is being held in the Prince William County Adult Detention Center. If convicted of the charges, he faces up to 30 years in prison.
