Republican members of the New Jersey legislative committee investigating Gov. Chris Christie's involvement in the Bridgegate controversy blasted the panel's work, calling it "a shiftless, broken political vehicle," in a report released Monday.
Republicans also called for an independent investigation into whether the committee misused taxpayer money for political purposes.
The committee met Monday to publicly release an interim report that failed to find any conclusive evidence tying Christie to the scandal. The report leaked to the press last week.
But Republicans used the meeting as a platform to release their own "minority statement," slamming Democratic co-chair John Wisniewski's handling of the probe into last year's lane closings on the George Washington Bridge.
"An opportunistic and power-hungry politician also used those reprehensible lane reassignments as cover, while leading a legislative committee to try to execute a two pronged political mission: take down Governor Chris Christie, the biggest political threat to state and national Democrats, and in so doing, become the next Democrat gubernatorial candidate," the report said.
State Sen. Kevin O'Toole, a Christie ally, said during Monday's meeting that Republicans planned to forward their report to the office of the state Attorney General asking for an independent prosecutor to examine whether the committee misused taxpayer money for political purposes.
"The committee was formed to stack the partisan deck against Republicans in a way that was merely window dressing in the name of bipartisanship," O'Toole said. "Co-chairs never shied away from the microphone and camera to spread their prejudicial and predetermined outcomes."
Wisniewski, meanwhile, said the process "may well serve as a great example, perhaps the greatest example, of legislative oversight in our state's history."
He said that the committee was unable to interview key witnesses. The committee, he said, is ready to continue its work should more evidence become available.
