President Barack Obama is going to a top group of American business leaders Wednesday, where he's hoping to make his pitch for his agenda to the business community ahead of an incoming Republican majority in Congress.
Obama will tout economic gains in the private sector at a meeting of the Business Roundtable in Washington, where he's also looking for support to advance issues like tax reform, trade and infrastructure, a White House official said.
The group, an association of top U.S. CEOs whose companies employ more than 16 million people, is a powerful force on Capitol Hill, spending more than $12 million in lobbying in 2013 according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The organization could be an important ally for Obama on key issues as he looks to bridge the gap with Republicans on issues with some common ground, like tax reform.
While traditionally backing Republican candidates and policies, the business community hasn't pushed back as strongly against Obamacare as the GOP and have pushed leaders on Capitol Hill to rally around comprehensive immigration reform.
And Obama will need to keep business leaders on his side over the public fight over Obamacare that is sure to flame up as the employer mandate kicks in at the beginning of next year.
Obama could generate some good will as he spotlights the economic gains of his presidency: 10.6 million jobs added to the economy in 56 months, a booming stock market and near-record corporate profits, the White House official said.
"As the President has said, he is eager to work with the new Congress wherever possible to make the next two years as productive as possible, and will look to the business community as a partner in these efforts to continue to grow our economy and create opportunity," the official said.
The official did not mention immigration reform, but the topic could come up as he takes questions from a group of business leaders during the event that comes just weeks after Obama announced his executive actions to reform the immigration system and give legal status to more than 4 million undocumented immigrants.
Like other business groups, Business Roundtable didn't fully embrace Obama's executive action, though the group didn't rebuke it as Republican leaders did and the group's policy director on immigration has said he's hopeful Obama and Congressional Republicans can work together to pass immigration legislation.
Obama's meeting with the business group comes just hours before he meets with incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in the Oval Office Wednesday afternoon.
