Former NFL star Darren Sharper and a friend told other people that they had sex with two women in a New Orleans apartment in September without "their knowledge or permission," an application for an arrest warrant that was released Thursday revealed.
Sharper is jailed in Los Angeles, where he faces similar accusations, and is scheduled to attend an extradition hearing on Friday.
Prosecutors in New Orleans intend to charge Sharper, 38, and Erik Nunez, 26, on two counts of aggravated rape.
If convicted, the two men face a possible sentence of life in prison without parole.
Sharper turned himself into Los Angeles authorities last week. His attorneys said after he pleaded not guilty to rape charges in Los Angeles that he maintains that any sex he had with any of his accusers was consensual.
The application for the arrest warrant said New Orleans detectives interviewed two women who said they were raped on September 23. The two accusers told police they were so impaired that they don't recall "the entirety of the sexual intercourse," and that they never agreed to have sex.
The document describes how a friend came to the apartment and saw Sharper in his underwear and Nunez exiting Sharper's bedroom in just his boxer shorts.
Police said through further investigation they found other witness who told them Sharper and Nunez admitted to sexual acts without the women's permission or knowledge.
Nunez turned himself in to the Orleans Parish district attorney's office on February 28.
The alleged rapes in California occurred in October and last month, authorities said.
Prosecutors have said the five-time Pro Bowl player, who was recently fired as an NFL Network analyst, is also under investigation in Arizona, Florida and Nevada. No charges have been filed in those cases.
In addition, a Florida woman last month filed a sexual battery complaint in Miami Beach against Sharper relating to a 2012 incident, a police report said.
According to the report, the woman was with two friends at a Miami Beach club in September or October 2012 when she met Sharper. The woman, her friends and another person went to Sharper's condo, where the woman claims the battery took place.
Miami Beach police are investigating the case, Miami Beach Detective Vivian Hernandez said last month.
Sharper played for the Green Bay Packers, Minnesota Vikings and New Orleans Saints from 1997 through the 2010 season.
CNN's Tory Dunnan contributed to this story.
