A hacker falsely posted on the Twitter account of Oscar Pistorius' older brother Saturday that the South African Olympian was going to do media interviews, a family spokeswoman said.
Carl Pistorius didn't post such a tweet, and he and his sister, Aimee, were canceling all their social media accounts Saturday, said family spokeswoman Janine Hills. All three Pistorius siblings live in South Africa, she said.
On Friday, Oscar Pistorius was freed from jail on $112,000 bail eight days after the shooting death of his model girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp, 29.
Pistorius, 26, is charged with premeditated murder in her February 14 death.
"It is most unfortunate that during this sensitive time, someone would choose to hack into Oscar Pistorius older brother, Carl Pistorius' Twitter handle," Hills said in a statement. "Carl did not tweet this afternoon, out of respect to Oscar and Reeva."
Hills said she heard on a South Africa radio station that Carl Pistorius' Twitter account stated that Oscar Pistorius was going to speak to the media.
"This is untrue," Hills told CNN in a separate interview. "I spoke to Oscar myself. He has not spoken to anybody and does not plan on doing any interviews."
The hacking apparently occurred Saturday afternoon, she said.
Meanwhile, Oscar Pistorius' family and friends expressed "immense relief" Saturday about how he was freed on bail, a relative said.
"What happened has changed our lives irrevocably," said Arnold Pistorius, the athlete's uncle, referring to the events surrounding Steenkamp's death.
Oscar Pistorius said he fired his gun because he thought an intruder was hiding in a toilet room inside the bathroom of his Pretoria home, not realizing it was actually Steenkamp inside.
"We are acutely aware of the fact that this is only the beginning of a long road to prove that, as we know, Oscar never intended to harm Reeva, let alone cause her death," Arnold Pistorius said in a statement. "We realize that the law must run its course, and we would not have it any other way."
CNN's Lonzo Cook and Aliza Kassim contributed to this report.
