English champions Chelsea scored six goals for the second successive match of the new Premier League season at home to Wigan Athletic to match Arsenal's effort earlier on Saturday.
Nicolas Anelka and substitute Salomon Kalou scored twice each for the London side, while Florent Malouda and Yossi Benayoun also netted as Chelsea again set the mark for Manchester United to follow ahead of last season's runners-up's trip to Fulham on Sunday.
It was the second successive heavy defeat for Wigan manager Roberto Martinez, leaving the Spaniard an early favorite to be the first casualty of the season.
Wigan beat Chelsea near the start of last season, but suffered an 8-0 thrashing on the final day of the campaign in April and have now shipped 25 goals in five league matches.
France winger Malouda broke the deadlock from close range in the 33rd minute after Frank Lampard's effort was saved by Chris Kirkland, then Anelka scored twice in four minutes after halftime -- the second a header set up by last weekend's hat-trick hero Didier Drogba.
Drogba nets hat-trick as Chelsea crush West Brom
James McCarthy hit the post for Wigan, who had an effort by Mauro Boselli ruled out for offside before Malouda's replacement Kalou made it 4-0 in the 78th minute.
Wigan's French Mohamed Diame was carried off with an injury, then Ivory Coast forward Kalou netted another goal with a minute to play and Israeli substitute Benayoun scored his first since joining from Liverpool in time added on.
Young England winger Theo Walcott netted a hat-trick as Arsenal brought promoted Blackpool back to earth with a 6-0 crushing in north London.
Blackpool had thrashed Wigan 4-0 away in the small club's historic first Premier League outing, but were outclassed to end a difficult week following the resignation of chairman Karl Oyston amid reports he may be made bankrupt.
Walcott put Arsenal ahead in the 13th minute, and the match was effectively ended just after half an hour when visiting defender Ian Evatt was sent off for fouling Marouane Chamakh on the edge of the area.
English Premier League preview
Andrei Arshavin scored the resulting penalty, Walcott made it 3-0 six minutes before halftime and Abou Diaby scored the fourth four minutes after the break.
The midfielder set up Walcott's hat-trick goal on 58 and Morocco striker Chamakh made up for a series of misses as he scored his first for Arsenal to seal the romp with eight minutes left.
Tottenham bounced back from the 3-2 Champions League defeat by Young Boys with a controversial 2-1 win at Stoke, despite missing several injured players.
Stoke suffered a second successive defeat as debutant striker Jon Walters' late effort was ruled out despite appearing to have crossed the goal line.
Gareth Bale scored both goals for the London team, the first coming in the 20th minute after his shot was saved and then Stoke defender Ryan Shawcross blocked Peter Crouch's headed rebound into his path.
Striker Ricardo Fuller leveled five minutes later but attacking full-back Bale made it 2-1 on the half-hour with a superb volley.
Stoke suffered a double blow, with Malian striker Mamady Sidibe possibly ruled out for the rest of the season after snapping his Achilles tendon late in the match.
West Ham also fell to a second defeat under new manager Avram Grant, losing 3-1 at home to Bolton as striker Carlton Cole missed a penalty and fellow England international Matthew Upson scored an own-goal.
Jussi Jaaskelainen saved striker Cole's weak 33rd-minute spot-kick before defender Upson headed into his own net three minutes after halftime, then Sweden striker Johan Elmander netted twice either side of Mark Noble's penalty consolation for West Ham (79).
Birmingham also missed a penalty but bounced back to beat Blackburn 2-1 with both goals from Craig Gardner after Steven Nzonzi gave the visitors the lead.
Ben Foster denied Morten Gamst Pedersen five minutes after halftime following Nikola Zigic's foul on Christopher Samba, then French midfielder Nzonzi headed in a corner.
But James McFadden set up Gardner's first on 57 and the midfielder smashed a spectacular winner from long range with 19 minutes to play to leave both teams with three points from two outings this season.
West Brom bounced back from last Saturday's thrashing by beating Sunderland 1-0 thanks to a late winner from new signing Peter Odemwingie, with the Nigeria striker netting in the 81st minute just a day after sealing his move from Russian club Lokomotiv Moscow.
Wolverhampton followed up their opening win with a 1-1 draw at Everton as striker Sylvan Ebanks-Blake's 75th-minute goal canceled out the opener by Australia midfielder Tim Cahill just before halftime.
In Sunday's other game, promoted Newcastle host Aston Villa, while on Monday Liverpool travel to Manchester City.
