CNN Latino, the Spanish-language programming block custom-made for the U.S. Hispanic market, is expanding to New York, Orlando, Tampa and Phoenix, CNN en Español announced today.
"We are taking the power of the CNN brand with all the content from around the world and customizing it for different shows and blocks for CNN Latino," said Cynthia Hudson, senior vice president and general manager of CNN en Español and Hispanic Strategy for CNN/U.S.
CNN en Español's "Conclusiones" and "Cala" are the only shows that are repurposed for CNN Latino.
"We believe that CNN Latino programming is a great alternative to the current offering of Hispanic broadcast content in the U.S.," said Hudson.
These four markets -- in addition to the existing local channel in the Los Angeles area -- will serve markets that represent about a quarter of Hispanic households. This growing population, at more than 50 million, with spending power of $1 trillion by 2015 is projected to represent 30% of the U.S. population by 2050, according to Forbes.
"Sin Limites," hosted by Elizabeth Espinosa, will continue to be CNN Latino's production for the Los Angeles market.
Why CNN Latino will be different from every other Latino media outlet
CNN Latino signed with WBQM-LD Channel 3, a low-power television station in New York, the second-largest Hispanic market with 1,360,660 Hispanic TV households that account for about 18 % of total households.
The joint venture will carry the CNN Latino eight-hour programming block from 3-11 p.m. ET, as well as its current mix of local production and programming from Latin American partners, including shows from ColorVisión Channel 9 in the Dominican Republic, Jorge Barón Televisión in Colombia and RBC Televisión in Perú.
CNN Latino brings in LA's Elizabeth Espinosa
In Orlando, CNN Latino will be carried on WATV-LV Channel 47.1, which covers the area of Orlando, Kissimmee, Sanford and Poinciana. Orlando is ranked 17th among Hispanic TV markets and has over 232,000 Hispanic TV households.
In Tampa, CNN Latino will be carried on WTAM Chanel 30.1, which covers the area of Tampa, Clearwater, St. Petersburg, Bradenton, Sarasota, Zephyrhills, Brandon and Riverview. Tampa is ranked 19th among Hispanic TV markets and has more than 220,000 Hispanic TV households.
"For many years, the Central Florida region has been anxiously waiting to watch high-quality Hispanic television outside of the traditional novelas, dramas and game shows which narrowly defines the interests of Hispanics," said Francisco Moll, SIMA Communications Operations Manager and business partner of Tampa. SIMA partners are also part of the TMA-TIG joint venture.
All the affiliated stations will transmit CNN Latino programming, including "Sin Límites con Elizabeth Espinosa," "Panorama USA," "Cala," "Magazine CNN," "Archivo CNN," "Nuestro Mundo," "Cruzando Fronteras," "Showbiz Latino," "Contrastes," "Dra. Azaret," "Deportes USA" and other original content for the U.S. Hispanic market.
These new markets will join the likes of News Corp and Colombia's RCN Television, which are behind the Spanish-language network MundoFox, and ABC News/Univision (now Fusion) in launching a 24-hour English-language network, all aimed at the U.S. Hispanic audience.
CNN en Espanol talks with Larry King on Castro, Chavez and the richest man in the world
