Actress Lindsay Lohan planned to check herself into a substance abuse rehab program Monday, a source close to the actress said.
The source did not reveal which rehab program Lohan had chosen.
Lohan's entry into rehab comes three days after a Los Angeles, California, judge ordered her to jail without bail in the wake of a failed drug test. She spent just 14 hours in jail because another judge allowed her to post a bond Friday evening.
She spent 23 days in a court-ordered rehab program at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center last month, following 13 days in a Los Angeles County jail.
"Substance abuse is a disease, which unfortunately doesn't go away over night," Lohan wrote in a September 17 Twitter message. "I am working hard to overcome it and am taking positive steps."
Her father, Michael Lohan, has been urging his daughter to go to rehab voluntarily.
"Finally, they listened to me," he said Sunday.
He said on Friday that he was praying that defense lawyer Shawn Chapman Holley "does the right thing and advises her to go right into rehab now, and show the judge she's serious, because in 30 days when she goes back before the judge he can do whatever he wants."
Lohan posted a $300,000 bail and was released from jail late Friday night, the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department said.
A judge granted Lohan bail Friday night, overturning a decision earlier in the day that sent the actress to jail until a probation revocation hearing four weeks away, a court spokesman said.
The bail terms required Lohan to be fitted with a SCRAM alcohol-detection bracelet, Los Angeles County Superior Court spokesman Allan Parachini said.
Judge Patricia Schnegg granted Lohan's bail after Holley filed documents just before court closed Friday afternoon, Parachini said.
Judge Eldin Fox ordered the preliminary revocation of Lohan's probation Friday morning based on a probation report saying she tested positive for controlled-substance use.
The probation revocation hearing was set for October 22.
Lohan was arrested twice in 2007 on charges of driving under the influence, and in the second incident, she was charged with cocaine possession.
The first arrest came after Lohan lost control of her Mercedes-Benz convertible and struck a curb in Beverly Hills, California.
Just two weeks after checking out of a Malibu, California, drug and alcohol rehabilitation facility, she was arrested again in July 2007 after a woman called Santa Monica, California, police, saying Lohan was trying to run her down with a car.
Lohan's acting career, which started at age 10 on a soap opera, took off on the big screen a year later, when she played identical twins in Disney's remake of "The Parent Trap."
