While Charlie Sheen works to "conquer the medical issues" in rehab and his hit sitcom is on "production hiatus," a porn actress is talking about a two-day party she claims led to his collapse last week.
Kacey Jordan appeared on ABC's "Good Morning America" Monday morning and she later tweeted "the rest of the story" will air on "Nightline" Monday evening.
Sheen's lawyer Yale Galanter responded with a written statement Monday.
"It is a shame that during this time, while Mr. Sheen has sought treatment on his own, opportunistic women are trying to take advantage of his celebrity status," Galanter said.
The actress described what she said was a nonstop party at Sheen's Los Angeles home, including a large amount of cocaine use by Sheen.
"It was all over the bathroom counter," Jordan said. "You could see him like chiseling it off, putting it in there repeatedly."
Sheen proposed that she and several other porn actresses move into a mansion at his expense, Jordan said.
"He wanted us all to live in this huge house he was going to rent out and he's like, 'You can have anything you want. Anything you want, you name it. It will be done within an hour," Jordan told ABC.
But the sex and drug allegations weren't the only revelations from Jordan. She claims Sheen wanted her to baby-sit his children.
"I think maybe the baby-sitting part was important to him, so that maybe when he was, you know, doing his drinking, you know, maybe that he didn't have to have his kids see him be like that and then have one of us girls watch them," Jordan said.
Denise Richards, an ex-wife who shares two young daughters with Sheen, apparently saw the ABC interview. Richards posted this message on her Twitter account soon after:
"If you caught GMA today..FYI.. No 'adult film star' will be babysitting our kids!"
Sheen voluntarily entered an undisclosed rehabilitation center for treatment Friday, Sheen representative Stan Rosenfield said.
The announcement came a day after Sheen was rushed to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, where Rosenfield said he was treated for severe pain related to a hernia. He checked out of the Los Angeles hospital Thursday night, he said.
"Charlie has had a hernia condition for some time," Rosenfield said. "I was told by the person who made the 911 call that it was hernia-related."
Sheen's hit CBS sitcom "Two and a Half Men" has been placed on "production hiatus," CBS and Warner Bros. Television said Friday.
"We are profoundly concerned for his health and well-being, and support his decision," their joint statement said.
It was the second emergency trip to a hospital for Sheen in three months.
He spent several hours in a New York hospital in October after police responded to an early morning call about "an emotionally disturbed person" at the Plaza Hotel, a law enforcement source said at the time. Sheen's representative blamed an "adverse allergic reaction" to a medication.
Sheen, the son of actor Martin Sheen, spent at least a month last year at a Malibu, California, rehab center, but it was never disclosed what he was treated for there.
He was arrested in December 2009 after his wife, Brooke Mueller, told Aspen, Colorado, police that he threatened her with a knife at their holiday home.
A Colorado judge allowed the actor to count his time at Promises of Malibu toward a 30-day jail sentence after he entered a guilty plea in August in that case. The plea deal reduced the charges from felony domestic violence to a misdemeanor third-degree assault count.
