CNN's Larry King knew George Carlin for 50 years.  He spoke to CNN.com about his relationship with the comedian and will remember Carlin on tonight's Larry King Live, 9 ET.
Larry King interviews George Carlin on June 7, 2001.  King knew Carlin for 50 years.
CNN: When did you first meet George Carlin?
Larry King: In 1958, I introduced him at a big DJ convention in Miami. He was a straight comic then, all his bits dealt with radio, things like the hippy-dippy weatherman. From there, we became friendly, and we occasionally went to dinner in New York.
CNN: When did you last see him?
Larry King: A couple of months ago, I saw him at the Regency Hotel in New York. I was checking in, he was checking out. We talked a little bit. He had remarried -- his first wife had died -- and he was very happy. My heart doctor in Los Angeles had treated George in the past, and had told me that he had terrible heart problems.
CNN: Where does he rank as a comedian?
Larry King: He was one of the brightest comedians in my lifetime. Whether you agreed or disagreed with him, it was always well thought out. He wrote out all his material by hand, and then memorized it. Everything he said was totally his own, and he'd do a new act every year, which is very hard to do.  Watch George Carlin on Larry King Live »
CNN: What was he like off stage?
Larry King: He was a kind, gentle man. He seemed rough on stage, but he really was not like that at all. Also, his greatest comic influence was Lenny Bruce. Carlin used to do mother-in-law jokes, disc-jockey jokes. But Bruce influenced him to do edgier, more topical material. He also influenced how Carlin moved around on stage.
CNN: What was the impact of the "seven dirty words?"
Larry King: It's one of the classic comedy bits of all time. It was great conception and a great idea. It pointed up the hypocrisy of society. People take words too seriously. Violence is a lot worse than words. All those words, while not used on air, are used in society. George once said, if a word shocks you, you must have heard it somewhere else.
CNN: Where does he rank as a comedian?
Larry King: He ranks very high as a social monologist, and he commented on social things. He was also a pretty good actor.
CNN: How did other comedians view him?
Larry King: I never heard a bad word about him in the comedy world. Some religious people didn't like him. He will really be missed. If you want to use the word "one of a kind," he was one of a kind.
