Paris Saint-Germain and Lyon are seemingly headed in different directions.
With millions pumped into the squad by its Qatari owners, PSG ended a 19-year title drought in France last season and looks set to challenge for league honors and on the European front for some time.
After winning seven consecutive league titles from 2002-2008, Lyon, meanwhile, is now finding it difficult to break into the top two.
It also crashed out in Champions League qualifying this week having been a fixture in Europe's most prestigious club tournament for years.
And on Saturday, while Lyon fell 2-1 at Evian to suffer a fourth straight defeat in all competitions, PSG scored twice in injury time to see off a spirited Guingamp and move a point behind idle league leader Marseille.
Just when it appeared as if newly promoted Guingamp would snatch a point in Paris, substitute Adrien Rabiot pounced on a rebound when keeper Mamadou Samassa couldn't hold on to Alex's header.
Zlatan Ibrahimovic doubled the advantage for his first league goal this term to give Laurent Blanc's men two wins and two draws from four outings.
The host was full value for all three points, hitting the post, crossbar and dominating possession. Guingamp's only shot on target, though, was a good one.
Salvatore Sirigu stopped Mustapha Yatabare on a one-on-one approaching the 80th minute.
Two first-half goals from Kevin Berigaud were enough for Evian to see off Lyon, which again played without influential attacking duo Bafetimbi Gomis and Jimmy Briand -- Lyon wants to sell both players.
There was more misery for Lyon when star midfielder Yoann Gourcuff left the game with a leg injury before halftime.
"A lot of disappointment with this loss and this bad start to the game," Lyon midfielder Fares Bahlouli told the club website. "It's becoming a habit."
Marseille and Monaco, along with PSG the only other unbeaten teams in Ligue 1, face off Sunday.
Rampant Juventus
In Italy, defending Serie A champion Juventus thumped Lazio for the second time this season, winning 4-1 in Turin.
Arturo Vidal scored twice and Carlos Tevez continued to find the back of the net since his move from Manchester City, getting Juventus' final goal in the 80th minute.
Lazio, routed by Juventus 4-0 in the Italian Super Cup, had midfielder Hernanes sent off in the 63rd minute for a handball offense, although Juventus was already leading 3-1.
Juventus and Napoli each have the maximum six points through two games in Serie A.
