Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce kept her tag of the fastest woman in the world with a performance as dominating as her Jamaican male counterpart Usain Bolt 24 hours earlier to claim the 100m title at the world championships Monday.
The diminutive 1.52m tall sprinter recovered from an indifferent start to drive through the line in 10.71 seconds, the fastest time of the year.
After a build-up dominated by doping scandals involving Trinidad and Tobago's Kelly-Ann Baptiste and her own teammate Veronica Campbell-Brown, who would both have been medal contenders, Fraser-Pryce reminded everyone of her formidable talent.
The double Olympic champion and winner of the world title in 2009 shrugged off a minor injury problem to win from Ivorian Murielle Ahoure (10.93), with defending champion Carmelita Jeter of the United States taking the bronze (10.94).
"I had my obstacles - I was starting to feel pain under my left butt cheek," Fraser-Pryce revealed after her victory.
"I am surrounded by great people. I came here and did my best and actually won. It was really hurting but I knew what I worked for."
While Fraser-Pryce's win was clear cut, Britain's Christine Ohuruogu won by the slenderest of margins from Botswana's defending world champion Amantle Montsho in the women's 400m.
Ohuruogu made her customary late charge for the line to overhaul Montsho, who looked a certain winner even 10m out.
Her desperate dip saw her given the verdict in 49.41 seconds, a new national record, with Montsho awarded the same time.
Home hope Antonina Krivoshapka claimed bronze in 49.78 seconds in front of the Moscow crowd.
Ohuruogu, a former Olympic and world champion, was returning to the top of the podium after taking silver at the 2012 London Games.
"It's like a dream, it's too much" she admitted.
"I cannot believe it. After the race, I did not want to get too excited until I knew for sure that I won, until my name got out first.
In other finals on the third day of competition, New Zealand's Valerie Adams won a record fourth women's shot put title.
The two-time Olympic champion hurled the implement 20.88m, with Germany's Christina Schwanitz and China's Gong Lijiao taking the silver and bronze.
The United States tasted gold success in the men's 110m hurdles as 31-year-old David Oliver crossed the line first in 13 seconds dead from compatriot Ryan Wilson in silver with Russian Sergey Shubenkov back in third.
German Raphael Holzdeppe was surprise winner of the men's pole vault with a 5.89m clearance, beating reigning Olympic champion Renaud Lavillenie of France on count back.
Another German, Bjorn Otto, took bronze.
