April 3, 2015
We're starting with some international headlines today, covering events in Switzerland, Kenya and the Pacific Ocean. California's historic drought is now hitting home for many residents and businesses, who've been ordered to cut their water usage. We discuss two religious holidays being celebrated worldwide this weekend, and we take a look at a pair of subjects related to U.S. National Parks. It's all featured this Friday on CNN Student News.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. What nation voted to replace Goodluck Jonathan with Muhammadu Buhari as president?
2. Name the U.S. astronaut who recently blasted off for a nearly year-long mission to the International Space Station.
3. Hydraulic fracturing, also known as fracking, and horizontal drilling are methods of extracting what substance?
4. Despite his nickname "the Little Corporal," what historic conqueror was likely taller than other men of his era?
5. What nation is leading airstrikes against Yemen, following a governmental takeover there by Houthi rebels?
6. Though the spread of the Ebola virus appears to have stopped in Liberia and slowed down in Sierra Leone, new cases have increased in what West African nation?
7. During what period of European history was an eye ointment described that's now showing effectiveness against a modern-day superbug?
8. Scientists have fitted certain insects, members of the family Blattidae, with tiny backpacks that manipulate their neural systems. Name these insects.
9. In what body of water is Typhoon Maysak, which is threatening to make landfall in an island nation this weekend?
10. What two religious holidays will be celebrated around the world this weekend?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
