After sparking controversy to have designer John Galliano teach a three-day master class at Parsons The New School for Design, the school announced on Wednesday the class has been canceled.
"An important element of the planned workshop with John Galliano was a candid conversation about the connection between his professional work and his actions in the world at large," said Parsons in a statement. "Unfortunately, we could not reach consensus with Mr. Galliano on the conditions of this conversation, and the program could not move forward."
The former chief designer for Christian Dior is not new to controversy. In 2011, he was fired and convicted of making anti-Semitic comments.
In a previous statement, Parsons said the class was expected to give students an opportunity to learn from "an immensely talented designer."
Soon after the class was announced, a petition was created on Change.org against Galliano teaching at Parsons and generated more than 2,100 supporters.
Galliano was fired from the fashion giant in March 2011 after making anti-Semitic remarks in Paris. Later that year, a French court found him guilty for making public insults based on origin, religious affiliation, race or ethnicity.
"I love Hitler," Galliano said in a video obtained by Britain's Sun newspaper. "Your mother, your forefathers would be f---ing gassed and f---ing dead."
In his trial, he said that alcohol and drugs were major factors, which he realized during a stint in rehab after he was fired. Galliano apologized, saying, "Anti-Semitism and racism have no part in our society."
He added: "I only have myself to blame, and I know that I must face up to my own failures and that I must work hard to gain people's understanding and compassion."
Abraham Foxman, national director for the Anti-Defamation League, said Tuesday in a statement, "I think it's time that John Galliano be evaluated on his skills."
"He apologized, he repaired, he reached out. We should just move on. I think that's the fair thing to do. I'm delighted for Parsons, and I'm delighted for him," Foxman added.
In their earlier statement, Parsons acknowledged the controversy saying, "We believe that over the past two years, Mr. Galliano has demonstrated a serious intent to make amends for his past actions."
CNN's Sheila Steffen contributed to this report.
