(CNN Student News) -- April 29, 2014
Science, history and medicine are all making headlines today on CNN Student News. Following a deadly outbreak of tornadoes, a CNN meteorologist explores and explains the wreckage. And a Cold War boundary has been physically removed, but it continues to separate some wildlife in Europe.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What challenges might confront a reporter covering a story about an event that happened decades ago?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Tornado Alley
2. the Holocaust
3. Iron Curtain
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What U.S. states experienced tornadoes yesterday? What does CNN meteorologist Chad Myers say about a building that was destroyed by a tornado? What are some of the hazards that search and rescue and cleanup teams face after tornadoes? How do people often injure themselves after these storms?
2. What was the Holocaust? What is one goal of Holocaust Remembrance Day? What were some ways in which people around the world observed this day?
3. What are some innovations on the horizon in medicine? What kinds of technology are helping these innovations become reality? Which of these focus on treating disease? Which focus on prevention?
4. What was the Cold War? According to the video, how is one Cold War boundary "still dictating lives today"? What did scientists observe when they tracked two groups of red deer, each on one side of a long-gone electrified fence? How do the deer know not to cross the area where the fence used to be?
Discussion Questions:
1. Do you participate in any observances on Holocaust Remembrance Day? Explain. How do you think that victims of the Holocaust should be remembered? Do you think humanity can prevent a tragedy of this scope from happening again? If so, how? If not, why not?
2. What medical advances do you think will help improve our quality of life in the future? What advances do you think you will see in your lifetime? Do you think that any diseases will be cured or eradicated? If so, which ones?
3. What biological lessons do you think are illustrated by the behavior of the red deer in the video? Have you ever seen these biological principles at work in other instances? Explain. What lessons, if any, do you think this story holds for humans?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
