Teenage sensation Matteo Manassero and Spaniard Alvaro Quiros joined world number two Luke Donald at the top of the leaderboard after the second day of the BMW PGA Championship.
Donald, from England, was out in front after a sparkling 64 on the opening day but he struggled in calmer conditions on Friday, carding a one-over-par 72 to sit on six-under.
Manassero, from Italy, followed his 66 on Thursday with a one-under round while Quiros fired a four-under round of 67 to make it a three-way tie at the top on a day when players, spectators and officials all wore blue in honor of the late Seve Ballesteros.
Spaniard Jose Manuel Lara, Thomas Aiken, from South Africa, and England's David Horsey all sit two shots off the lead on four-under.
Donald, who can claim golf's number one ranking from compatriot Lee Westwood with a win at Wentworth, told the European Tour's official web site that Manassero's maturity had made an impact on him
"I'm impressed with him in general," he said. "I think to have done as well as he has done at such a young age is very impressive. I suppose he has a somewhat similar game to me -- he doesn't overpower courses."
No-one on the course bettered Quiros' round of 67 and the Spaniard said his putting was a big factor in his impressive display.
"I've been playing very, very safe, so I think it's a good thing, having in consideration the bad weather and the greens, how hard are the greens, they are tough and quick.
"It's a good strategy, probably is giving me bonuses without hitting the ball great."
Manassero couldn't match the standards he set on Thursday, but said he had been inspired by the crowd of over 25,000 that helped to pay tribute to Ballesteros -- one of the sport's biggest characters.
"I'm happy about 70 today -- it wasn't easy," he said. "The flags I think were trickier and it was a more difficult course. Even if it wasn't as windy as yesterday, it wasn't easy to score, and not many low scoring today.
"It was a very big crowd today. It was a great day, it's big fun. It happens just one time on the European Tour, and it's in Wentworth -- that's why I think it's so special."
World number one Westwood fared better on day two, posting a score of 69 to move to one-under, while Masters champion Charl Schwartzel missed the cut in spectacular style -- finishing on 12-over.
