Marcel Hirscher continued his red-hot streak with a stunning victory at the Moscow parallel slalom Tuesday.
The Austrian consolidated his lead at the top of the overall World Cup standings after overcoming Sweden's Andre Myhrer in the men's two-leg final.
Hirscher, who also won at Kitzbuhel on Sunday, is now 214 points ahead of Norwegian rival Aksel Lund Svindal in the overall standings, and has all but assured himself victory in the race for the slalom's crystal globe.
Hirscher turns it on for the Terminator
It was the second city event of the World Cup season, which is based in the mountain resorts of Europe and North America, and Hirscher made amends for being beaten by Felix Neureuther in Munich on New Year's Day.
"All in all I was ahead by less than half a second," Hirscher told reporters.
"It's very tough to win each race against so many great racers, but I was lucky today. The weather is cold and today there were almost perfect conditions for this competition.
"It was a good race for me but if some more spectators were to come to watch the race next year it would be really great for us."
The win was Hirscher's sixth of the season and 18th of his career, a feat which is certain to give him a huge lift going into the World Championships at Schladming, Austria, which start on February 4.
"It's a totally different event than what we normally ski," Hirscher said of the Moscow race, for which big ramps are constructed.
"If I had to compare it with my victory in Kitzbuhel, it might be less difficult to win in an event where there are 16 opposed to over 60 skiers, plus there was so much pressure on me for that victory which I was missing from Kitzbuhel.
"But, here you only have one chance to give 100%, things are so tight that unless you step up your game from heat to heat -- you are out!"
Svindal sets the Alpine speed standard
Meanwhile, Germany's Lena Duerr won the women's slalom after edging past Slovakia's Veronika Velez-Zuzulova.
"I tried to keep myself focused during my every single race tonight and it paid off as I managed to win the event," Duerr told reporters.
"I'm really happy with my performance here."
Slovenia's Tina Maze, who leads the World Cups standings, suffered a surprise defeat in the quarterfinal by Switzerland's Wendy Holdener.
