India captain MS Dhoni believes his team are peaking at the right time as they prepare to battle Sri Lanka for the Cricket World Cup.
Dhoni believes the lengthy format of the competition, which started on February 19, has suited his side, who secured their place in the final with a win over Asian rivals Pakistan.
With Mumbai set to host the showpiece event on Saturday, cricket-mad India is buzzing with anticipation at the tantalizing prospect of their team securing their first world title since 1983.
And Dhoni, who has been praised for his leadership skills during the tournament, thinks his side are hitting top form just at the right time.
"The format has really helped us. We have had quite a few close games where we were tested," he was quoted as saying by the UK Press Association.
"Some of the youngsters were tested. They were at the crease at a time when a big performance was needed from them. Slowly they are getting into the groove.
"It was important that we peaked at the right time. We've chased some decent scores and we have won batting first.
"We've been tested more often than not in the games we have played so I think it will be a very good final. Sri Lanka is a very good team and we will have to do our best to beat them.
"It's not about what your rating is but how good you are on the day. You have to be at your best."
Going to the World Cup? Send videos, photos to CNN iReport.
Sachin Tendulkar is bound to be the main focus of the build up to the game as the record-breaking batsman known as 'the little master' goes in search of his 100th century.
But Dhoni insists the Indian effort is a group one and that the close knit nature of his squad has contributed to their success.
"Everybody's giving more than 100 percent on the field, so we're ready for the final," Dhoni said.
"The team unity, the way we are backing each other and not criticizing any player has been great. If somebody is having a bad time on the field we are making sure he is wanted and everybody is helping each other.
"That's what really counts in team sport. Individuals have stepped up and said 'OK I will be the person who will perform in this particular game' but overall everybody has contributed so far in bits and pieces."
