CNN Films' "Girl Rising" tells the stories of girls across the globe and the power of education to change the world. Are you inspired to help the cause of girls' education around the world? You can make an impact in many ways, but by just being aware of the issue, you can spread the word. By acting in your own community, you can make a global difference.
More about Girl Rising
GIVE
CNN and Impact Your World don't accept donations but do help you find reputable places to give your money and time. "Girl Rising" is the centerpiece of 10x10, a global campaign to educate and empower girls. It has created the 10x10 Fund for Girls' Education.
Donations to this fund are distributed evenly among the film's nonprofit partners. Many of the girls profiled in the film were helped by these organizations, and the groups continue to work for girls' education in developing countries. As little as $50 can educate a girl for a year.
The film's seven nonprofit partners are:
A New Day Cambodia is a nonprofit organization providing shelter, food and education to Cambodia's garbage dump scavenger children. Sokha, who is featured in "Girl Rising," was one of those children.
CARE USA  works to help educate girls in some of the poorest, most desperate parts of the rural areas in the mountains of Peru. Senna from "Girl Rising" was helped by this organization.
GirlUp -- United Nations Foundation is a campaign inspiring American girls to take action for girls in countries such as Ethiopia, Guatemala and Liberia who face a lack of access to education and are susceptible to child marriage, high maternal death rates and HIV infection.
Partners in Health has worked in places such as Haiti, Rwanda, Malawi and Lesotho. They try to help all children, especially girls, receive the health care and social support needed to go to school. Wadley from "Girl Rising" benefits from Partners in Health's work in Haiti.
Plan International USA tries to give girls around the world access to food, water, education, financial security and protection from sexual violence and exploitation. Yasmin, the girl in Egypt in "Girl Rising," was part of a Plan International USA program helping to keep street girls safe.
Room to Read focuses on helping young girls develop literacy skills and a habit of reading. Their hope is to create a legacy of gender-equal education in developing countries such as Nepal and Cambodia. Suma from "Girl Rising" had the chance to learn because of Room to Read.
World Vision supports girls' education in many countries through many initiatives. Two of the girls in "Girl Rising" are World Vision-sponsored children: Ruksana from India and Azmera from Ethiopia.
SHARE
You can also take action by speaking out. What's one thing you would tell girls of the world about education? Share your message in an open letter to girls of the world on CNN's iReport. and you could be part of CNN's coverage.
Join the conversation about "Girl Rising" on CNN, Facebook, Twitter and around the Web. Follow #GirlRising to tweet celebrities, big names in the girls' education field, CNN talent and everyday people around the world who just want to make a difference.
If you have questions or story ideas related to girls' education and "Girl Rising," e-mail ImpactYourWorld @CNN.com.
RISE UP IN YOUR COMMUNITY
The 10×10 group has partnered with a film distribution service to allow anyone to book "Girl Rising" into movie theaters across the country. But it will only come to your community if enough people reserve tickets to see it. The money raised from tickets goes to the 10x10 Fund. To host a screening of the film "Girl Rising" in your community CLICK HERE.
More from 10x10
More from CNN Films' "Girl Rising"
