A 22-year-old Boston University graduate who fell down an elevator shaft at Boston's Fenway Park remains in serious condition, and "her prognosis is uncertain," a lawyer for her family said Tuesday.
Elisabeth Scotland of New Jersey fell into the elevator shaft after a Red Sox game Friday, the day of her graduation from the Boston University's School of Management.
Though the cause of the accident remains under investigation, a spokesman for the Massachusetts Executive Office of Public Safety and Security said "extreme force" against the bottom of the elevator door probably caused a break of the "fasteners and metal back-up safety system" that kept the door in place.
Spokesman Terrel Harris said investigators believe that the force caused the door to give, but the cause of the pressure is unclear. He said the elevator, which was operating properly during its last inspection in February, remains out of service.
"The Scotland family appreciates the many expressions of concern and support that have come from the Boston community and the Red Sox organization," said a statement released by Patrick Jones, a lawyer for Scotland's family. "They acknowledge with gratitude the outpouring of love and support from their South Jersey community."
The statement added, "At this time Lizzy continues to receive medical and surgical care and attention at Beth Israel; her condition is serious and her prognosis is uncertain."
Scotland was transported to Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center after the fall.
"Somehow (the) elevator shaft doors on floor 4 opened," the Boston Fire Department said on Twitter.
Scotland fell into the shaft, landing on the roof of the elevator, the department said.
She'd fallen "anywhere from 20 to 30 feet," fire department spokesman Steve McDonald told CNN affiliate WCVB.
"The firefighters went to the upper floors and were able to look down and see her," McDonald added. "She was not moving."
Firefighters cut power to the elevator after stopping it on the second floor, the fire department said.
Rescuers did not wait for a ladder; they used a chair and boosted themselves up through a hatch to the roof. They immobilized the victim and lowered her through the hatch, the fire department said.
In a statement before Saturday night's game against the Detroit Tigers, the Red Sox said: "The Massachusetts Department of Public Safety and the Boston Police Department are working to determine exactly what happened. Due to the ongoing investigation, and out of respect for the family of the young woman who was injured, the Red Sox will have no further comment at this time."
The Red Sox lost Friday night to the Tigers 1-0. The incident occurred shortly after the game ended.
CNN's Lawrence Crook III contributed to this story.
