Italy and Spain have become the second and third nations to secure qualification for the Euro 2012 finals after wins over Slovenia and Liechtenstein respectively on Tuesday evening.
Germany were the first country to book their tickets for the finals in Poland and Ukraine on Friday.
And they have now been joined by Italy, after a goal five minutes from time from Inter Milan striker Giampaolo Pazzini gave them a 1-0 Group C success over Slovenia in Florence.
Should UEFA put weaker nations out of their misery?
A defensive mix-up between Marko Suler and Bostjan Cesar left Pazzini to smash the ball home from five yards out to secure victory for Cesare Prandelli's side.
The result means the Italians now have an eight-point lead over Serbia with just two matches remaining.
Serbia beat Faroe Islands 3-1 and Estonia thumped Northern Ireland 4-1 in the other two group matches played on Wednesday.
That leaves second on 14 points and one win from their final two matches will see them reach the play-offs.
And, later in the evening, world champions Spain made it three teams to seal qualification after a 6-0 hammering of minnows Liechtenstein in Group I.
David Villa and Alvaro Negredo both scored twice with Xavi and Sergio Ramos also on target for Vicente Del Bosque's side.
Spain have a maximum 18 points from their six matches, eight points ahead of the Czech Republic, who are battling Scotland for second place in the group.
Scotland kept their hopes of reaching the play-offs alive with a narrow 1-0 win over Lithuania in Glasgow.
Meanwhile, Netherlands need just a point from their last two matches to secure qualification from Group E after a 2-0 victory over Finland in torrential rain in Helsinki.
The World Cup finalists went ahead in the 29th minute when Wesley Sneijder set up Kevin Strootman to score.
Haiti soccer's World Cup dream
And the Dutch added a second goal in injury time through striker Luuk de Jong to secure their eighth win from eight matches.
Netherlands require a draw against either Moldova or Sweden to secure their place in Poland and Ukraine.
Sweden kept their faint hopes of pipping Netherlands alive with a 5-0 thumping of San Marino, while Hungary won 2-0 at Moldova.
England have also edged closer to qualification after a narrow 1-0 Group G win over neighbors Wales at Wembley.
Manchester United winger Ashley Young scored the only goal, but Wales can consider themselves unlucky not to get something from the match after dominating the second half.
England need a point from their final two matches to reach the final. Montenegro lie second on 11 points and they still have to play Fabio Capello's side at home.
Switzerland beat Bulgaria 3-1 in the other group match to keep alive their hopes of finishing second.
Group H is the closest of the nine groups, with three teams locked together on 13 points after Denmark beat Norway 2-0 thanks to a double strike from Sunderland forward Nicklas Bendtner.
Portugal are level with those two nations, although Norway only have one match remaining while the other two have two each.
It is also close in Group B with the top four teams separated by just three points. Russia and Republic of Ireland drew 0-0 in Moscow and remain first and second on 17 and 15 points respectively.
But Armenia put themselves into contention with a stunning 4-0 success in Slovakia, leaving both teams a point behind on 14 points.
France remain top of Group D despite a disappointing 0-0 draw in Romania. Laurent Blanc's side are a point clear of Bosnia, who beat Belarus 1-0, while Romania still retain faint hopes of qualifying.
It is now down to a two-horse race in Group F between Croatia and Greece, with Croatia leading by a point with two matches left.
A double from Eduardo da Silva helped Croatia defeat Israel, while Greece were held to a costly 1-1 draw in Latvia.
In Wednesday's friendly matches, Poland and Germany drew 2-2 apiece with both sides scoring in injury time, while Argentina beat Nigeria 3-1 and Belgium had a 1-0 success over the United States.
