(CNN Student News) -- December 3, 2013
What factors are investigators considering as they examine a train derailment in New York? How has the U.S. responded to North Korea's detainment of American citizens? Which nation is aiming to be the next to land a spacecraft on the moon? The answers are in Tuesday's program. Plus, we discuss an online company's plans for unmanned, aerial deliveries - and the challenges they pose.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What do you think is meant by the term "state media"? How might government-run news media differ from independent news organizations?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. detainment
2. lunar probe
3. unmanned aerial vehicle ("drone")
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What did people in the report say about a recent train derailment in New York City? What are some possible factors that officials are investigating?
2. What is known about two Americans detained by North Korea? According to former U.N. ambassador Bill Richardson, what action has North Korea taken with regard to American detainees in the past? What does Richardson say about the current situation?
3. What countries have successfully landed unmanned spacecraft on the moon? Which country has launched a lunar space probe in an attempt to join this group? How would you describe the lunar rover being used for this mission?
Discussion Questions:
1. What challenges might the international community face in its relations with a secretive nation, such as North Korea? What options might be available to the U.S. in obtaining the release of two detained Americans?
2. Why might a country want to send a spacecraft to the moon? (What significance might such a mission carry for a nation?) What might be the challenges of a moon mission? Why do you think relatively few countries have tried to accomplish this feat?
3. Can you think of other uses for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) like the ones Amazon proposes using to ship packages? What might be the potential benefits and drawbacks of this kind of technology? Do you think that civilian uses of UAVs will be common in the near future (i.e. the next ten years)? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
New York City
Asia
North Korea
China
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
