After news hit that "Teen Mom's" Farrah Abraham made a so-called sex tape with Lindsay Lohan's "The Canyons" co-star James Deen, there were conflicting stories about its existence and its origins.
When originally approached about it on April 8, Abraham, 21, said she knew of no such tape, but implied that something she might not have intended to go public could exist.
"If I have my own personal stuff, then that's my own personal things and if there's anyone that's trying to be rude or just get at me, then my lawyer will take care of that," she said.
Then professional porn actor Deen said he and Abraham had shot a full-fledged adult film together.
He told CNN:
"Essentially, this is what happened, I was approached (to star in the movie) and we had this long conversation about how I was the wrong person for the job. Not to be arrogant because I'm not famous, but people that are watching porno, I'm in porn and they would say, 'Hey look it's James Deen in this porno.' (Those in negotiations) said 'No, it's fine. We want to set this up like you and her are dating' and I'm like no, absolutely not. They were like, 'No, it's going to be great: we'll set you up on a date and call the paparazzi' and I'm like no, that sounds like the worst experience of my life. Absolutely not going to do that. I think what happened now, the company has its marketing strategy, she and her people have their marketing strategy. I don't really care, but why can't the marketing strategy be, It's gonna be cool! Wanna see it? World's best porno comin' out soon!"
Deen continued:
"I picked her up from her hotel room and drove her to set, somebody took a picture of us walking out of the hotel room, I get a call the next morning asking if we're dating, I say no and they said, well what were you doing and I said we were shooting a porno. Now there's this whole thing. They're saying please don't say any details and I'm like, I have no desire to say anything to anyone. To me, this isn't even a story. But, also, I do porn every day."
Now Abraham admits that a tape with Deen does exist and is negotiating its distribution.
A spokeswoman for MTV had no comment on the matter.
When asked how, between Abraham and his "The Canyons" co-star Lindsay Lohan, Deen has managed to get tangled up with controversial starlets, he said, "I don't know. Maybe I'm the new sex tape."
"Oh wow," he noted "that's gonna be a good headline. But I mean, sex tapes are played out and everyone knows they're fake now. Like the Kim Kardashian one - everyone's like, that's obviously fake. She was paid a bunch of money to make a sex tape with her boyfriend. And the Tila Tequila one, everyone's like, oh wait, that (other) girl does porn, she's just in this movie with her. I think everybody has kind of figured out that sex tapes are a hoax, so I think now management is like, you should just hang out with James Deen. It'll be like you're doing a sex tape -- it'll be the same drama and controversy and stuff, it'll be all crazy. Or maybe I'm just in ... a place at ... a time? I don't even know."
