Dharun Ravi, the former Rutgers University student convicted of bias intimidation by use of a hidden webcam, is expected to appear in court on Wednesday, one day after he apologized for his behavior and said he plans to submit to his impending jail sentence.
"I accept responsibility for and regret my thoughtless, insensitive, immature, stupid and childish choices that I made on September 19, 2010, and September 21, 2010," Ravi said in a written statement on Tuesday.
Ravi was sentenced to serve 30 days in jail, three years of probation and must complete 300 hours of community service aimed at assisting victims of bias crimes. He plans to surrender himself on Thursday.
Ravi also must pay more than $11,000 in restitution.
The state's decision to appeal the sentence automatically stayed it, according to Ravi's attorney Steven Altman. He is allowed, however, to chose to go ahead and serve it so long as he waives any double jeopardy claim, the attorney said.
The purpose of Wednesday's court appearance is to place that waiver on the record, said Altman.
"I decided to accept and hopefully complete the sentence as soon as possible. It's the only way I can go on with my life," Ravi said in his statement.
Ravi's gay roommate killed himself by jumping off New York's George Washington Bridge.
Tyler Clementi, an 18-year-old freshman, plunged to his death into the Hudson River after learning Ravi had secretly spied via a webcam as Clementi had an intimate encounter with another man.
Middlesex County Prosecutor Bruce J. Kaplan has said Ravi's crimes warranted "more than a 30-day jail term" and called Superior Judge Glenn Berman's sentence "insufficient under the sentencing laws of this state, the facts that were determined by a jury and long-standing appellate precedent."
Was 30-day sentence fair?
Calling the appeal "a registering of outrage," CNN Senior Legal Analyst Jeffrey Toobin said there is "very little chance" the sentence will be overturned.
He noted that under New Jersey law, the judge had the flexibility to sentence Ravi to anything from zero to 10 years in prison.
