Bubba Watson believes he can now challenge golf's top stars after heading off three-time Masters champion Phil Mickelson for an emotional victory at Torrey Pines in California on Sunday.
The 32-year-old climbed 15 places in the world rankings to 18th as he claimed the second PGA Tour title of his career at the Farmers Insurance Open, while fellow American Mickelson reclaimed the No. 4 spot after finishing second on his first start this season.
Watson started the final round one shot behind joint overnight leader Mickelson but carded an impressive five-under-par 67, which included six birdies and just one bogey, to finish the San Diego tournament on 16 under.
World number four Mickelson could have forced Watson into a playoff had he made eagle on the 18th hole, but a miss from 72 yards allowed his Florida-born opponent to celebrate victory by just a single shot.
Mickelson's fellow overnight leader Bill Haas faded badly on the final day, finishing on nine under after a 75.
For Watson the victory was particularly emotional following the death of his father to cancer last year, shortly after his only other PGA Tour win at the Travelers Championship in Connecticut.
"It means a lot," he told reporters. "I'll probably cry all day, just like last time."
The 32-year-old said the win had given him the confidence to compete with the world's best at major championships.
"In my mind, I believe I can be a top-five player. I want to. I want to be number one in the world. I want to win every golf tournament," he said.
"I want to perform every week. I want to be on every Ryder Cup team, every Presidents Cup team. I believe I can do it. I truly believe it."
San Diego-born Mickelson, a three-time winner on the Torrey Pines course, said he was disappointed not to have made a better start to the season at his local tournament.
"I wanted to start the year off with a win," the 40-year-old said. "But on the other hand, I played really good golf and gave myself an opportunity.
"I played well on Sunday and had a good tournament. Hopefully, I'll use this as a springboard for next week."
Former world number one Tiger Woods made a poor start to 2011, finishing in a disappointing 44th position.
In his first competition of the year, the event's five-time champion failed to birdie any of the par-fives and finished with a round of 75.
"I have some work to do. There's no doubt about that," the American said. "I hit it as pure as I could possibly hit it starting out, but got nothing out of it."
Venezuelan rookie Jhonattan Vegas followed up his victory at the Bob Hope Classic last weekend with a third-place finish as he ended the tournament on 13 under along with American Dustin Johnson.
Vegas shot 68, and his third bogey of the day at 18 meant he shared the prize money with Johnson, who ended with two birdies in his flawless 66.
D.A. Points was fourth on 12 under after a 67, while fellow Americans Nick Watney (63), Anthony Kim (72) and Hunter Mahan (72) were tied for sixth on 10 under.
Watney, starting on the back nine of the South Course, started with five successive birdies, picked up three more from 16, and capped his round with an eagle three at the sixth.
