Becoming world champions for the fourth time, defeating the illustrious Brazil 7-1 in their own back yard along the way before returning to the adulation of a million people at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin -- 2014 has been just about the perfect year for Germany's football stars.
But things didn't quite go to plan on Saturday as Joachim Low's side was defeated 2-0 by a well organized Poland in Euro 2016 qualifying.
The result marks the first time Poland has ever defeated Germany -- a fact not lost on the raucous home crowd who seemed to expend as much energy singing and shouting over the course of this pulsating Group D match as their heroes did on the pitch.
After a goalless first half, Arkadiusz Milik gave the Poles the lead in the 50th minute, rising to nod beyond Germany goalkeeper, Manuel Neuer.
Poland's star-striker Robert Lewandoski then showed great strength to hold-off former Borussia Dortmund teammate Erik Durm late on before squaring to substitute Sebastian Mila who arrowed a fine strike beyond Neuer to make sure of the win.
Goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny saved well from German sharp-shooters Andre Schurle and Mario Gotze in the moments after Poland took the lead while Lukas Podolski crashed a left-footed off the crossbar from eight yards out with 10 minutes remaining.
Despite having much of the possession, Germany struggled to break down their hosts who were happy to sit deep and play on the counter-attack.
"Obviously, we're disappointed."  Low said in quotes carried by the German FA's website after the match.
"I can't blame my team for much, maybe only that we were too careless with our chances. Poland then made it 1-0 with their very first shot."
Low's frustration was echoed by Neuer who admitted to being caught out for Poland's first strike.
"It was an avoidable defeat," Neuer said. "We didn't play badly. If we had scored the first goal, then we would have won."
"I came out bravely for the first goal, but I was too late -- it was a mistake by me."
Qualification for Euro 2016 in a group that also features Scotland, the Republic of Ireland and Georgia now seems wide open, although the World Champions will still be favorites to qualify.
In Saturday's other Group D fixtures, Robbie Keane scored a hat-trick in the first 18 minutes of the Republic of Ireland's 7-0 romp against tournament debutants Gibraltar.
Scotland overcame Georgia 1-0 in Glasgow, meanwhile, thanks to an own goal from Akaki Khubutia who turned into his own net after a vicious shot from Shaun Maloney.
Poland now top the group with six points, ahead of Ireland on goal difference.
Germany and Scotland lie three points back in third and fourth position respectively.
The Poles have the chance to stretch their lead when they welcome Scotland on Wednesday while Germany will aim to get back on track by defeating the Irish in Gelsenkirchen.
Northern Ireland wins, Greeks and Danes draw
Elsewhere in Euro 2016 qualifying Saturday, Northern Ireland rose to the top of Group F thanks to a 2-0 home victory over minnows the Faroe Islands.
In the group's other matches, Finland held Greece 1-1 in Helsinki while a stunning free-kick from Balasz Dzsudzsak earned Hungary a 1-1 draw with Romania in Bucharest.
A late goal from substitute Lasse Vibe spared Denmark's blushes against Albania and ensured the Danes remain top of Group I.
Armenia held Serbia 1-1 in Hrazdan in Group I's earlier fixture.
