(CNN)  -- Manuel Neuer captained Schalke 04 to the German Cup with a 5-0 rout of second-flight Duisberg while earlier Saturday Celtic salvaged their season with a 3-0 win over Motherwell to claim the Scottish equivalent.
Goalkeeper Neuer, linked with a move to Bavarian giants Bayern Munich and also English champions Manchester United, may have been playing in last game for Schalke, but had little to do in the Berlin Olympic stadium.
Dutch international striker Klaas-Jan Huntelaar scored either side of halftime after midfielder Julian Draxler put Schalke in front with a spectacular volley after being set up by Peru star Jefferson Farfan.
Goals from Jose Jurado and defender Benedikt Hoewedes completed the rout for Schalke, who were beaten by Manchester United in the semifinals of the Champions League.
Schalke's league form was poor as fellow Ruhr Valley side Borussia Dortmund took the title, but the Royal Blues have made partial amends in cup competitions.
Celtic had been pipped for the Scottish title by arch-rivals Rangers but were too good for Motherwell at Hampden to give manager Neil Lennon his first piece of silverware since taking over.
It extended their own record tally of 35 Scottish Cups, but was their first since 2007.
South Korean international Ki Sung-Yeung put Celtic ahead on the half hour mark with a stunning shot from outside the area.
Gavin Gunning hit the bar for Motherwell, who were finally undone by Stephen Craigan's cruel 76th minute own-goal.
Charlie Mulgrew crashed home a free kick to seal Celtic's emphatic victory.
It rounded off a bitter sweet season for Lennon, who has been the subject of death threats, parcel bombs and was attacked by a fan in Celtic's recent league game against Hearts.
There had been doubts about his future at Celtic, but he told Sky Sports he would be discussing his future with their board next week.
"This is the first trophy, I'm so proud of them today. "(But) I want the big one (the SPL title) on the CV, the sooner the better," he told Sky Sports.
In France, Lille also got their hands on silverware as a 2-2 draw with Paris Saint Germain on Saturday night saw them clinch their first league championship title since 1954.
