(CNN Student News) -- April 25, 2014
From the U.S. to Brazil, this Friday's edition of CNN Student News covers headlines that have people talking. Leaping across the pond, we tell you how an iconic theater is paying homage to its most famous playwright. And modern robots might look nothing like R2-D2, but they're still helping fight crime and save lives.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What credible sources would you consult for information to be included in a news report about a historical site?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What mountain was the site of an avalanche that recently killed 13 people, including some Sherpas who work as guides?
2. What is the term for the cost of attending classes at a college?
3. What is the only planet in our solar system not named for a Greek or Roman god?
4. What is the capital of Ukraine?
5. What government body issued a ruling upholding a Michigan ban on affirmative action in the state's public colleges?
6. What natural disaster struck Oso, Washington, one month ago?
7. What country was the first stop on President Obama's current trip to Asia?
8. What is the term for the process by which the Catholic Church declares a person to be a saint?
9. What Major League Baseball team plays its home games at 100-year-old Wrigley Field?
10. What country's military is patrolling certain slums in advance of this year's World Cup?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
