A man accused of shooting and paralyzing a U.S. Army soldier at a homecoming party intends to plead not guilty to all charges, his attorney said Wednesday.
Ruben Jurado, 19, faces a charge of attempted murder in the shooting of Army Spc. Christopher Sullivan on Friday night at a homecoming party in Sullivan's native San Bernardino, California. He also faces charges on "allegations involving premeditation and the use and discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury," the San Bernardino County District Attorney's Office said in a statement on Tuesday.
Jurado "will deny any and all allegations," defense attorney Michael Holmes said in a written statement to CNN on Wednesday. "We anticipate receiving the initial discovery of police reports and any other evidence that the district attorney has at this time."
Holmes noted that the court "allows video arraignment," but said he and Jurado had "discussed this process and he wanted to be present in court during the entire process. He requested to be present and the next available date is tomorrow (Thursday) morning."
The party in Sullivan's honor was to celebrate his recent return to California from Kentucky, where he was stationed while recovering from wounds sustained in a suicide bombing a year ago in Afghanistan. The bombing killed five members of his unit and left him with a cracked collarbone and brain damage, according to the San Bernardino County Sun. Sullivan received the Purple Heart, the newspaper reported.
At the party, Sullivan was shot twice after an argument and physical confrontation with Jurado, who fled the scene, according to police and witnesses.
The fight broke out after Jurado and Sullivan's younger brother began arguing about football, the brothers' mother, Suzanne Sullivan, told CNN.
Jurado turned himself in to authorities in Chino Hills, California, on Monday afternoon, said Lt. Gwendolyn Waters.
On Tuesday, Sullivan's mother told CNN he was "on 100% life support."
"He can move his head and he responds through nodding and blinking to us. His eyes aren't always open, but we try to encourage him to do so as often as possible," Suzanne Sullivan said.
She said her son asked what had happened to him and wanted to know why.
"We told him what it was about and he just closed his eyes," she said.
Suzanne Sullivan said her family is having a difficult time coming to terms with what happened.
"He once told me that if defending this country takes his life, so be it," she said. "But to see he survived that, and now for this to happen to him, just breaks my heart."
CNN's Stella Chan and Carey Bodenheimer contributed to this report.
