(CNN Student News) -- November 2, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Yemen • Baghdad, Iraq
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: There's an old saying: It's not what you know, it's who you know. It might also be how you act. We're gonna make sense of that in just a bit. I'm Carl Azuz. Welcome to CNN Student News!
First Up: Midterm Elections
AZUZ: The primaries, the rallies, the debates: Let's call all that the pre-game. The big show kicks off today, Election Day in the U.S. This has been the most expensive midterm election in U.S. history. And it wraps up today as voters cast their ballots all over the country. What's at stake: control of Congress. You've heard us talk about it. The Democrats currently have a majority in both chambers. Republicans are expected to make gains today. In order to take over that majority, the Republicans need to hold onto the seats that they currently have, plus win 39 more seats in the House of Representatives, 10 more in the Senate. Sandra Endo checks in now with a report on the final push leading up to today's election.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
SANDRA ENDO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: One last cry to rally the troops. President Obama was on the campaign trail trying to get out the vote in Cleveland.
U.S. PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: Because if everyone who fought for change in 2008 shows up to vote in 2010, we will win this election. I am confident in that.
ENDO: Former President Bill Clinton, Vice President Joe Biden and first lady Michelle Obama are fanning out across the country to help in key races, like in Kentucky, Nevada and Delaware. For the Republican Party, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani is stumping for GOP Senate candidate John Raese in West Virginia. Republican leaders are looking for big wins, a shift in power, in at least one chamber of Congress.
MICHAEL STEELE, CHAIRMAN, REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE: My goal in talking to our team out in the field is let's get our folks to the 39, because that's the momentum point you really want to go for, and then you can continue to build from there.
ENDO: In fact a new CNN/Opinion Research Corporation poll out Sunday shows a majority of Americans think Republicans will take over control of Congress after the midterm elections: 51 percent to 36 percent. According to the poll, 34 percent say the country will be better off if Republicans win back Congress; 28 percent say the nation will be worse off; and 36 percent say it won't make a difference. Another poll out today shows 75 percent of Americans think things are going badly in the country. It's the worst outlook going into a midterm election since the mid '70s, and the economy remains issue number one on voters' minds. In Washington, Sandra Endo, for CNN Student News.
(END VIDEO)
Blog Promo
AZUZ: We're taking a poll on our blog, From A to Z. The question: What's the biggest issue on your mind leading up to this midterm election? Imagine you're in the voting booth. What issue matters most to you? Head to our home page, CNNStudentNews.com, go to our blog, and weigh in. Teachers, we want to hear from you, too. You get to sound off in the CNN Teachers' Lounge! Same page, CNNStudentNews.com. Just scroll down 'til you see the teachers' lounge on the right-hand side like you do right there, highlighted. Same kind of question: What issues are on your minds this election year? Teachers, students, we're looking forward to hearing what you have to say.
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Ms. Taylor's class at Florence High School in Florence, Colorado! What country is highlighted on this map? Is it: A) Jordan, B) Yemen, C) Afghanistan or D) Egypt? You've got three seconds -- GO! This is Yemen, a Middle Eastern country that's home to more than 23 million people. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Security Concerns
AZUZ: Officials are tightening up security at Yemen's airports. That's part of the reaction to a suspected terrorist plot that was stopped last week. Two bombs, both coming from Yemen and addressed to locations in the United States. They were stopped along the way. Yemeni officials say "every piece of cargo and luggage will go through extensive searching" at all of the airports in the country. The same thing is happening at airports around the world, like you see right here. As for the response outside of Yemen, Germany and Britain are both banning any flights from Yemen, at least for a while. And shipping companies, like FedEx and UPS, are staying on high alert. The two bombs were discovered on cargo planes.
Iraq Church Shooting
AZUZ: In Baghdad, the capital city of Iraq, a Catholic church was the scene of a hostage standoff on Sunday. You might think of Iraq as mostly a Muslim country, but there is a small percentage of people there who are Christian. This standoff started right as the church was about to begin Sunday night services. A group of men carrying guns and explosives took over the church. U.S. military officials say the gunmen took around 120 people hostage. Eventually, Iraqi forces stormed the church. At least 50 people were killed in the violence. Around 75 others were injured. Eight of the suspected gunmen were arrested.
Downloadable Maps
AZUZ: If you're not exactly sure where to find Baghdad or which countries are around Yemen, we have some geographic guides that can point you in the right direction. Our free, downloadable maps! Every day, we help students track down locations in the headlines. They're 100-percent free, and you can always find them at CNNStudentNews.com!
Shoutout Extra Credit
MATT CHERRY, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for a Shoutout Extra Credit! Which of these words means appropriate or proper behavior? You know what to do! Is it: A) Effervescence, B) Vitriol, C) Etiquette or D) Verisimilitude? Rewind that clock to three seconds -- and GO! Etiquette is a French word that means proper social or professional behavior. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout Extra Credit!
Importance of Etiquette
AZUZ: Guidelines for a proper handshake. How you make eye contact. That's the kind of stuff we're talking about. Some people say etiquette can play a big role in getting a job. Right now, with so many people looking for work, any advantage helps. Alina Cho shows us how some job hunters are brushing up on their p's and q's.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
PATRICIA FITZPATRICK, THE NEW YORK SCHOOL OF ETIQUETTE: It's four steps. Let me show you. One, two, quietly, three, four.
ALINA CHO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: What does this...
FITZPATRICK: OK.
CHO: Have to do...
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I leaned over a little bit. Is that OK?
FITZPATRICK: You can tilt, uh-huh.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: OK.
CHO: ...With getting a job?
FITZPATRICK: OK, that's a big bite, Sarah.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I couldn't break it any smaller.
CHO: Would you believe etiquette counts for a lot?
FITZPATRICK: Eighty-five percent of success in life, in getting a job, is people skills. Fifteen percent is technical skills, or what you know.
CHO: So, how do you improve your people skills? By taking a class.
FITZPATRICK: Welcome to Outclass the Competition: Business Etiquette.
CHO: In just a year, Patricia Fitzpatrick says her business has doubled, and she charges $200 per person for a two-hour group session.
JODI R. R. SMITH, MANNERSMITH ETIQUETTE CONSULTING: One, two, three shakes is OK. Four is getting strange and five is creepy.
CHO: Other etiquette classes are going gangbusters. And the students are younger, 20-somethings just out of school looking for a job and an edge.
LINDSAY YUHASZ, ETIQUETTE SCHOOL STUDENT: I want to be the person that they're like, "This girl is great. When she came in, she smiled, she was confident, she shook my hand well." I want to be that person.
CHO: Which is why these young women are learning how to properly dine, communicate and network. All the little things that can show a potential employer you're up for the job.
FITZPATRICK: First of all, you don't go to events to eat, OK? You're not there to eat. So, eat something before you go.
CHO: Make eye contact in the area Fitzpatrick calls the triangle. Anything lower is too personal. Once you get the job, know how to eat. There's always a business lunch. Number one rule, eat with the back side of your fork. Cross your utensils while you rest, and leave them parallel at 10:20, like a clock, when you're done. So many details. Does it really matter? Anna Post is the great-great-granddaughter of Emily Post, the woman who literally wrote the book on etiquette.
ANNA POST, THE EMILY POST INSTITUTE: This will put you apart from the crowd. There are so many qualified resumes. This is a way to show that the boss can send you out and have absolute confidence that you won't embarrass them in front of the client, bottom line.
(END VIDEO)
Before We Go
AZUZ: Alright. Before we go today, you might have seen some good jack-o-lanterns on Halloween. We bet you didn't see anything like this. A group of world-renowned carvers took their tools to these gigantic gourds. What they came up with was pretty good. And in some cases, kinda creepy. But before you call them a bunch of hacks, remember, they're trying to turn a 250 pound pumpkin into a larger than life jack-o-lantern.
Goodbye
AZUZ: We think they deserve glowing reviews. Offering up puns is always a treat. The trick is knowing just which one to make. For example, orange you glad we didn't write a pumpkin pun? For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.
