Sri Lanka opened their 2011 Cricket World Cup with a thumping 210-run win over Group A outsiders Canada in front of a home crowd in Hambantota.
An 81-ball century from Mahela Jayawardene -- the fastest by a Sri Lankan at a World Cup -- and 92 from captain Kumar Sangakkara laid the foundations for Sri Lanka's formidable total of 332 for seven.
The pair shared a third wicket partnership of 179 as Canada's bowling attack toiled after earlier restricting Sri Lanka to 92 for two from the first 20 overs.
Sehwag century sets up India victory
Jayawardene finally fell at the end of the 44th over with the score on 276 for four. But Angelo Mathews and Thilan Samaraweera chipped in with useful runs at the death to steer Sri Lanka past 300.
Canada's theoretical run-chase got off to the worst of starts as opener John Davison was out to the seventh ball of the innings, bowled by Thisara Perera.
Fellow opener Ruvindu Gunasekera, Zubin Surkari and Jimmy Hansra all fell cheaply, leaving Canada in the mire at 42 for four after 18 overs.
Captain Ashish Bagai halted a complete collapse with steady 22 before becoming Perera's third victim. And Rizwan Cheema battled hard for his 37 as wickets tumbled around him, but was eighth man out in the 31st over.
Canada's miserable day was completed five overs later when they were all out for 122 -- Henry Osinde was last man out bowled by Ajantha Mendis for four.
Sri Lanka's next match is against Pakistan in Colombo on Saturday February 26.
Earlier in Group A, New Zealand thrashed minnows Kenya by 10 wickets in Chennai.
Kenya won the toss and elected to bat and made a respectable if somewhat slow start to their innings, scoring 33 runs in the first ten overs for the loss of one wicket -- opener Alex Obanda falling to Tim Southee in the seventh over.
Bangladesh excited to host Cricket World Cup
But it wasn't long before their innings began to unravel as Kiwi paceman Hamish Bennett -- who finished with figures of 4 for 16 -- ripped through Kenya's top order with only Rakep Patel (16 not out) offering any resistance.
Kenya's last five batsmen managed just four runs between them as Jacob Oram and Southee bagged three wickets apiece as Kenya slumped to 69 all out in the 24th over.
Kiwi openers Martin Guptill (39 not out) and Brendon McCullum (26 not out) needed just eight overs to knock off the runs as New Zealand romped home.
Tougher opposition awaits for New Zealand next Friday as they face arch rivals Australia in Nagpur.
