A prosecutor in the involuntary manslaughter case against Dr. Conrad Murray asked the judge Thursday to delay the trial, which is set to begin in a month.
Murray, who is charged in the death of pop star Michael Jackson, invoked his right to a speedy trial within 60 days of his arraignment, but the prosecution complained the defense has not met its duty to share information about potential witnesses.
"I do not take notes when talking to a witness," defense lawyer Michael Flanigan told Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Michael Pastor during a hearing Thursday.
Judge Pastor scolded Flanagan and his co-cousel Ed Chernoff for not providing more details to the prosecution about the testimony they expect from the 93 people listed as potential defense witnesses.
"There are sanctions, including monetary and continuances, and also including preclusion of a witness," the judge warned.
Judge Pastor appeared caught by surprise at Murray's arraignment last month when defense lawyers invoked his right to hava a trial within 60 days.
Flanagan, outside of court Thursday, said the defense will be ready when jury selection is scheduled to start on March 24.
"The defendant has a right to go to trial within 60 days," he said.  "I don't think there's any obligation for him to be completely ready 30 days before he's set to go to trial, if that were the true then what would we do the last 30 days?"
Judge Pastor ordered Murray's lawyers to create written summaries of what they've been told by witnesses in interviews.
"I guess we'll have to go out and take some more statements and tell the prosecution a little buit more about where we're coming from," Flanagan said.
Judge Pastor set a hearing for Monday morning to consider the prosecution request for a delay.
The judge also delayed making a decision until next week on allowing a new lawyer to join Murray's defense team until he can determine if there is a conflict of interest.
The lawyer, Nareg Gourjian, had worked on Michael Jackson's child molestation defense.
Murray wants Gourjian to replace Joseph Low, who left the defense team earlier this month.
Gourjian's former law firm, headed by lawyer Mark Geragos, raised the possible conflict of interest because the firm represented Jackson for two years starting in 2003, when he was charged with child molestation.
Geragos, and Michael Jackson estate's lawyer, Howard Weitzman, appeared in court Thursday to discuss the matter. But Judge Pastor asked them to return next week to meet privately because it involves "very sensitive material."
Gourjian told the judge last week that he was "in no way involved" in the Jackson case because he was "a brand-new lawyer" busy working on the a murder case at the time.
Jackson died on June 25, 2009 from what the coroner ruled was an overdose of the surgical anesthetic propofol.
