Top seed Caroline Wozniacki remained on track for a first grand slam singles title after a straight sets win over Slovakia's Dominika Cibulkova saw the Dane progress to the semifinals of the U.S. Open.
Wozniacki got the better of another night of windy conditions at Flushing Meadows, dominating her 21-year-old opponent to win 6-2 7-5.
Last year's runner up in New York made just 18 unforced errors in the match, compared to 43 from 45th ranked Cibulkova who also struggled to hold serve on the Arthur Ashe court.
"It felt like playing in a hurricane," world number two Wozniacki told the official U.S. Open website. "But it was the same for both players and I was happy to get through."
Home hopes distant ahead of U.S. Open
The 20-year-old will now face Vera Zvonareva in Friday's semifinal, after the Russian beat Kaia Kanepi of Estonia 6-3 7-5.
"She's playing aggressively so it's going to be a really tough match," Wozniacki, who could reclaim her world number one title from the injured Serena Williams should she lift the title in New York, said of her semifinal opponent.
"She's a great player. I'm going to go out there and do my best."
Zvonareva will be playing in the U.S. Open semifinals for the first time after her straight sets win over 31st seed Kanepi.
The seventh seed got to grips with the wind much better than 25-year-old Kanepi, who racked up a total of 60 unforced errors over the course of the match.
"I don't think she was just making errors for no reason," Zvonareva, who is yet to drop a set during  the tournament, told the official U.S. Open website. "I think I was making it difficult for her."
The result also means 26-year-old Zvonareva has now reached the last four in two successive grand slams, following her run to the Wimbledon final in June.
Meanwhile, in the other half of the draw defending champion Kim Clijsters came through a tough three-set quarterfinal to set up a last-four clash with former winner Venus Williams.
The Belgian second seed battled past Australian Sam Stosur 6-4 5-7 6-3, while third seed Williams overcame Italy's Francesca Schiavone 7-6 6-4 to book her place in the semifinal.
The pair will meet for the 13th time in their careers in Friday's semifinal, with their head-to-head tied at 6-6. They are both chasing their third titles at Flushing meadows.
