(CNN Student News) -- April 3, 2014
It struck with tremendous force, but it appears to have caused limited damage: Today, we'll explore the effects of an 8.2-magnitude earthquake near Chile. We also explain why it's so difficult for recovery officials to sort through the aftermath of a mudslide in Washington state. And we'll introduce you to a student who gained acceptance to every school in the Ivy League.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What challenges might reporters face as the try to get accurate information immediately after a natural disaster?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. subduction zone
2. First Amendment
3. Ivy League
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. On Tuesday, a powerful 8.2-magnitude earthquake struck near the coast of what country? What were some of the effects of the tremor? Why are officials saying it could have been worse? What concerns were voiced by officials in Indonesia? Why? What and where is the "Ring of Fire"?
2. Describe the scene at "ground zero" of the Washington state mudslide. What is the driving force for workers there? Why is this such a dangerous search? What are rescuers using to help improve their access?
3. What ruling has the U.S. Supreme Court handed down regarding election contributions? What won't be changed by this decision? What will? What do supporters and opponents of the ruling say about it?
4. What rare achievement among students belongs to 17-year-old Kwasi Enin? What U.S. institutions compose the Ivy League? Who does Enin say is the driving force behind his academics? What are his other interests? What does the principal of his school say about his achievement?
Discussion Questions:
1. In the video we hear that the U.S. flags flying above the mudslide search zone are "a source of strength and a symbol of hope for better days." Can you think of any other times when symbols have helped people affected by a disaster? Explain. Why do you think symbols can be so powerful, especially in times of tragedy?
2. Do you agree or disagree with the Supreme Court's decision regarding election contributions? State your rationale. Do you think the decision will impact future elections? If so, how? If not, why not?
3. If you were accepted to more than one college, what criteria would you use to make your decision? If you were friends with Kwasi Enin, what advice would you give him?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
