Zsa Zsa Gabor's daughter got her wish when a Los Angeles judge appointed a conservator to oversee the 95-year-old actress's finances and medical care Wednesday.
Judge asked to intervene in Zsa Zsa Gabor's care
But the man named temporary conservator is Gabor's ninth husband, Prince Frederic von Anhalt, who has feuded with his stepdaughter Francesca Hilton for years.
Hilton contended when she filed for the conservatorship in March that von Anhalt kept her ailing mother "increasingly isolated" and "heavily sedated," and she questions his handling of Gabor's finances.
Hilton is satisfied, though, because the court order requires her stepfather to provide monthly financial reports and medical records, Hilton lawyer Kenneth Kossoff said.
The Hungarian-born actress was once one of Hollywood's most glamorous women, but a broken hip and leg amputation in the past two years have left her confined to a bed.
Gabor's only child, the result of her marriage to Conrad Hilton, will also get weekly visits with her mother without von Anhalt present, the judge said.
Billionaire's son arrested as wife found dead
The arrangement is an improvement for Hilton because it will "make sure Zsa Zsa's money is used for Zsa Zsa's benefit and not for anybody's birthday party, billboards or mayoral campaign," Kossoff said.
Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Reva Goetz, who also oversees singer Britney Spears' conservatorship, ordered an end to any powers of attorney von Anhalt might claim that would have allowed him to sell Gabor's Bel Air mansion or other estate assets.
As conservator, he must send canceled checks and other financial records to Hilton's lawyer each month. Von Anhalt can make spending decisions with some of the money, but he must get court approval to access one bank account, Kossoff said.
Hilton and von Anhalt have battled publicly for several years over Gabor's finances and her access to her mother.
"He's basically taken my mother away from me," Hilton told CNN in an interview a year ago.
Husband accused of 'slavery and torture'
Von Anhalt, in an interview with CNN, said he limits his stepdaughter's access because she brings negativity into the room.
"I want smiling people in here. Happy, smiling people," he said.
He defended his care of Gabor, saying, "I'm going to make sure she has a good life, as long as I live, I will take care of her."
Von Anhalt, 68, maintains a high media profile, including a run for governor of California in 2010 that he halted after his wife's hip injury. He is currently an announced candidate for mayor of Los Angeles.
He made news several years ago when he claimed to be the father of Anna Nicole Smith's daughter after the actress's death. Paternity tests later disproved that claim.
Official: Mother abandons disabled daughter
Last year, von Anhalt announced that he wanted Gabor to become a mother again using an egg donor, artificial insemination and a surrogate mother.
"That's just weird," Hilton said at the time.
"I'm a retired guy," von Anhalt said then. "I can take care of it."
The unusual motherhood plan was never hatched.
Von Anhalt is 27 years younger than Gabor, whom he married more than 25 years ago.
The conservatorship agreement, reached through mediation, expires in January when the judge will revisit the case, the lawyer said.
