 Drug Enforcement Administration agents searched a Beverly Hills pharmacy Friday in connection with the investigation into the death of Michael Jackson, an agency spokesman said.
Dr. Arnold Klein denied in a CNN interview last month that he had given Jackson dangerous drugs.
The agents executed a federal search warrant at the Mickey Fine Pharmacy and Grill, and were expected to seize pharmacy records, said DEA spokesman Jose Martinez.
The pharmacy is in the same building as the office of Jackson's dermatologist, Dr. Arnold Klein. Shortly before his death, Jackson visited the building several times to see Klein.
The store remained open for business, giving journalists who chose to dine at its lunch counter an unusually close look at the searchers at work.
Several DEA agents crowded behind the pharmacy counter, shuffling through paper documents, while pharmacy employees stood by to answer questions.
Jackson had been sued by the pharmacy, which claimed the pop singer had not paid a $100,000 bill, but the dispute was later settled.
On Wednesday, the Los Angeles County Coroner's Office visited Klein's office. "We wanted some additional information and they provided it," said Ed Winter, coroner's spokesman. He said Klein's staff and attorneys cooperated with the requests.
The coroner's office said more than a week ago that a "thorough and comprehensive" report into the death of Michael Jackson is complete, but police have requested that it not yet be released because of the ongoing criminal investigation.
The coroner's office said it would abide by the request that "the cause and manner of death remain confidential," and referred all questions to Los Angeles police.
The DEA search did not involve detectives from the Los Angeles Police Department, although Martinez said the federal agents would share their findings with them.
Jackson's June 25 death is also the focus of an investigation by Los Angeles police and the state attorney general's office.
Klein, who treated Jackson for decades, denied in a CNN interview last month that he had given Jackson dangerous drugs.
CNN's Ted Rowlands contributed to this report.
