Henrik Stenson kept his cool to collect the biggest paycheck of his career Sunday, landing a $10 million FedEx Cup jackpot along with the $1.44 million prize for winning the Tour Championship in Atlanta.
The Swede, who also collected $1.44 million for winning the Deutsche Bank Championship earlier this month, finished three shots clear of young American hope Jordan Spieth and veteran Steve Stricker.
The 37-year-old went into the final day at East Lake with a four-stroke advantage, having been nine ahead halfway through Saturday's round, but Spieth ate into that as he fired a superb six-under-par 64.
The 20-year-old, who won his first PGA Tour title in July while still a teen, had carded eight birdies until his second bogey at 17 dimmed his hopes of a remarkable victory.
"It's been a dream come true," said Spieth, who had nine top-10 finishes in his rookie year.
Stricker, second behind Stenson in Boston and tied for fourth at last week's BMW Championship, made his charge with an eagle three at the 15th but he could only par from there as he also finished on 10 under.
It put the 46-year-old in third place in the FedEx Cup standings, while Spieth was seventh.
Stenson had given them hope when he dropped a shot at 14, but allayed any fears of another blowout like Saturday as he bounced back immediately with a birdie and finished with pars to complete a memorable wire-to-wire victory.
Webb Simpson shot the round of the day, a flawless seven-birdie 63 that lifted the 2012 U.S. Open winner up to fourth on 271 -- two shots ahead of his successor Justin Rose (67).
Dustin Johnson, whose late charge collapsed with a triple-bogey seven at the 17th hole, rebounded with a birdie at the last to claim sixth place.
Tiger Woods had led the FedEx Cup standings going into the fourth and final playoff event, but ended up second behind Stenson after finishing tied for 22nd in the 30-man field.
The world No. 1 said he was happy after carding his best round of the week, a five-birdie 67.
"There are days where I just don't have it," said the American, who has won five tournaments this year but struggled in the four majors. "Game doesn't feel right. Body doesn't feel right. Things just don't work. But I still grind it out and post some numbers.
"I wish I would have been a little more consistent in some of the events, but overall, at the end of the day, to add to the win total for the year, it's always a good thing."
Woods' old rival Phil Mickelson was tied for 12th after a 68, which put the British Open champion on four under along with Keegan Bradley -- who eagled the par-four seventh in his 67.
Masters champion Adam Scott was another shot back tied for 14th after carding a mixed 69 which featured a double bogey and four birdies.
Last season's FedEx Cup winner Brandt Snedeker, who has battled bone disease this year, tied for 20th after closing with 68.
