Miley Cyrus came to Mexico "like a wrecking ball" -- to quote her hit song -- offending fans at Monterrey concert and prompting a federal investigation.
This happened Tuesday in Monterrey, during the first of four scheduled "Bangerz Tour 2014" gigs in Mexico:
As Cyrus was "twerking" in the middle of a song, one of the two dancers contorting beside her used a Mexican flag to spank the oversized, false buttocks she was wearing.
Adding insult to injury: Tuesday was Mexico's Independence Day.
Mexican law is very stern on the subject of respecting the flag, the Mexican seal and national anthem: Any action "that implies contempt or lack of respect to the Homeland Symbols will be punished according to its severity and the condition of the offender."
The act of disrespecting a Mexican symbol carries a fine up to about $1,200 and three days in jail, and that's if it doesn't happen during the commission of a felony.
There's been no word about putting the international pop star in the slammer, but lawmakers in Nuevo Leon state voted unanimously Wednesday to condemn the incident.
Speaking to CNN, state Rep. Francisco Trevi単o said the Mexican Interior Ministry has opened an investigation at the request of the state legislature.
"I felt truly offended and annoyed by the fact that a foreign artist feels like she can come here and make fun of and mock our national flag on Independence Day, September 16th. She brazenly made fun of our flag," Trevi単o said.
Regardless of where the investigation goes, Trevi単o says, it seems the 21-year-old Cyrus and her concert organizers have gotten the message.
"It's important to notice that in her second concert Wednesday (also in Monterrey) she didn't desecrate the flag. There were several flags on display at the concert venue, but their use was appropriate. I hope this incident serves to get the message out that we Mexicans don't like it when our flag is made fun of," Trevi単o said.
It's not the first time the singer has been at odds with officials in Latin America. Regulators of public events in the Dominican Republic canceled her concert scheduled for September 13 in Santo Domingo on morality grounds.
Cyrus is scheduled to perform in Mexico City on Friday and Guadalajara on Sunday before "Bangerz" moves on to Chile and Argentina.
Opinion: Miley Cyrus' trifecta of bad taste
