A second man who has publicly accused a former Syracuse University coach of molesting him told CNN's AC360 on Tuesday that he was speaking out so that no other children would be hurt.
Mike Lang accused former men's assistant basketball coach Bernie Fine, 65, of touching him inappropriately at least dozens of times when he was a boy.
"I just hope that no other kids get abused, and that's the main reason why I came out and said what I had to say. ... I don't want this to happen to anybody else," Lang said.
Fine's house used to be like a home to him, and the coach was a father figure, a "great guy," he said.
Syracuse fired Fine on Sunday, less than a month after the university placed him on administrative leave after Lang and his stepbrother, Bobby Davis, came forward to publicly accuse him of molesting them over several years.
See a timeline of the Syracuse sexual abuse scandal
A third man, Zachary Tomaselli, now 23, has also said he was abused by Fine -- while in a hotel room in Pittsburgh, where he'd gone to watch a Syracuse game.
Police in Syracuse and Pittsburgh are investigating the allegations and looking for other potential victims, authorities have said.
Police say they'll change reporting procedures
When the allegations first surfaced, Fine -- married with a son and two daughters -- called them "patently false." He has not commented since.
The investigation at Syracuse comes in the wake of a sex abuse scandal at Penn State University that received nationwide attention. Former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky is accused of sexually abusing boys over a span of 14 years.
When asked what his reaction was when he saw the Penn State story break, Lang said his "stomach just turned."
"All I can think of is what me and my little brother went through, and it's happening all over again," he said.
Regarding Jim Boeheim, head men's basketball coach at Syracuse, Lang said, "I honestly believe he didn't know anything about this."
While some have called for Boeheim to be fired, he said, "I just don't want that to happen. He's a Syracuse man in and out and ... I don't believe that he had any knowledge this was going on."
Lang, now 45, said he used to tell Fine to stop touching him, but that "you couldn't tell him no."
"It was hard to say anything, because you think you're with a god -- just hard to come out and say anything to anybody about it," Lang said.
Watch Anderson Cooper 360° weeknights 10pm ET. For the latest from AC360° click here.
