The Premier League is supposed to be the most exciting in the world -- but there's something a little too predictable about it all this season.
A decade ago, Arsenal won the title without losing a single game and was hailed as 'invincible' as it triumphed in 26 of its 38 fixtures.
Now, 10 years later, there is a feeling that a new generation of invincible players are ready to emerge -- and they are wearing the blue of Chelsea.
Another victory on Wednesday night, this time against Tottenham, takes Chelsea's unbeaten run to 14 league games and 21 in all competitions this season.
Jose Mourinho's side sit six points clear at the top of the table ahead of Manchester City, the defending champion.
Ostensibly, this is a two-horse race with Manchester United and Arsenal already well off the pace and Liverpool enduring a dismal start to the campaign.
City, 4-1 winners at Sunderland courtesy of another couple of goals from the irrepressible Sergio Aguero, are still in the hunt, but there is something about this Chelsea side which makes it look so imperious.
Already through to the last-16 of the Champions League and the quarterfinal of the League Cup, Mourinho has downplayed his side's chances of winning the quadruple before it enters the FA Cup in January.
While such an achievement would be a stupendous achievement, the immediate question of securing the league title appears slightly more realistic.
A 3-0 victory over London rival Tottenham was achieved with minimum fuss and the usual efficiency as Chelsea recovered from the surprise of only managing a goalless draw at Sunderland last weekend.
"We played against a very good team and they showed that during some periods in the game," Mourinho told the BBC.
"They started better than us and should have scored before us, but after our first goal our team became more stable and confident and we controlled the game.
"I'm really happy with the points, performance and spirit of the players. It's too heavy a result, though, for Tottenham."
There is nothing more appetizing to a Chelsea team than the visit of Tottenham -- a team which folds as soon as someone inside Stamford Bridge as much as sneezes.
Tottenham's last win at Chelsea was back in 1990 and in the previous 57 meetings between the two sides, Spurs had managed just five victories.
So even when the visiting side made a strong start to the contest and Harry Kane hit the crossbar, there were few imagining anything other than a Chelsea victory.
They were to be proved correct of course. Eden Hazard and Didier Drogba both scored both the interval before Loic Remy added a third to seal the points.
Spurs will not be the last team to be given a beating by Chelsea this season, this was the 11th time Mourinho's side have tasted success in 14 league games.
City slickers
Chelsea's main challenge looks set to come from Manchester City which breezed to victory at Sunderland, a place where it has struggled in the past.
City remained in touch at the top after coming from behind to win at Sunderland with Aguero playing a starring role yet again.
The Argentine striker scored twice with Steven Jovetic and Paolo Zabaleta also on target after Sunderland had taken a surprise lead.
Aguero, who has now scored 66 Premier League goals in 101 appearances, has managed 14 so far this season.
Elsewhere, Arsenal grabbed a dramatic late winner to see off Southampton 1-0.
Alexis Sanchez netted in the 89th minute to fire Arsenal to within two points of the Champions League places.
"It was a difficult game against a good side but we deserved to win, it was a victory of patience and intelligence and we kept our structure well," Arsene Wenger, the Arsenal manager, told the BBC.
"We were jaded physically but Alexis Sanchez can dig deep and has such desire and a will to win, he still finds that resource to get you something special."
In the night's other game, Everton was held to a 1-1 draw by Hull City.
