A Louisiana family may have won a reprieve in its fight to protect its beloved pit bull from a local "vicious dogs" ordinance.
The village of Moreauville passed an ordinance in October banning pit bulls and Rottweilers as of December 1, but local officials put enforcement on hold after a national outcry.
It all started with resident Joanna Armand, who started an online petition to protect her family's pit bull, Zeus, from exile or worse. Her petition, which asks the village to reverse the ban, has drawn more than 200,000 signatures.
Zeus is more than the family dog, Armand said. He provides love and support for her children, especially daughter O'Hara, who uses a halo brace and a wheelchair because of severe neck problems.
Zeus acts as a sort of therapy dog for O'Hara, Armand said. He sleeps by her side every night. If O'Hara wakes up with seizures, he rouses her mother.
Owners of the animals received a letter saying that pets found within the corporate limits of Moreauville after December 1 will be "impounded and transported to a veterinary clinic for further disposition," according to a letter posted on the family's Facebook page.
Moreauville Alderman Penn Lemoine told CNN affiliate KALB that the ordinance was created to placate residents in the small village. "We had several residents that were complaining about not being able to walk along the neighborhoods because these dogs were basically running along town," Lemoine said, according to KALB.
Lemoine told KALB that the wording of the letter caused a misunderstanding and that town officials don't want to kill anyone's family pet.
Village leaders are working to set up an emergency meeting about the ordinance, according to KALB.
Moreauville is not the first town to pass a ordinance restricting the ownership of pit bulls, Rottweilers or other "vicious dogs." But the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals recommends breed-neutral laws "that focus, not on breed, but on people's responsibility for their dogs' behavior, including measures that hold owners of all breeds accountable for properly housing, supervising and controlling their dogs."
The White House also signaled its opposition to breed-specific legislation in 2013, saying "research shows that bans on certain types of dogs are largely ineffective and often a waste of public resources." Several states have passed legislation banning local governments from introducing breed-specific laws or ordinances.
Besides, pit bulls are not a breed of dog. Several breeds of dogs, mainly the bull terrier, the bulldog and the American Staffordshire terrier, are commonly referred to as "pit bulls." These dogs descended from an English bull-baiting dog bred to bite and hold bulls, bears and other large animals around the face and head, according to the ASPCA. They were later bred with terriers to produce a more agile, athletic dog.
"It is likely that that the vast majority of pit bull type dogs in our communities today are the result of random breeding -- two dogs being mated without  regard to the behavioral traits being passed on to their offspring. The result of random breeding is a population of dogs with a wide range of behavioral predispositions. For this reason it is important to evaluate and treat each dog, no matter its breed, as an individual."
