(CNN Student News) -- March 20, 2014
Thirteen days after a Malaysia Airlines plane vanished, CNN Student News takes you to the Indian Ocean to show you how a military aircraft is helping in the search. In the UK, there's a new coin on the way, and we'll explain why it's being minted. You'll also hear about "math anxiety," and you'll meet a CNN Hero who captures the spirit of Women's History Month.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What perspectives and elements might you include in a video report about a local hero?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. P-8 Poseidon
2. counterfeit
3. "math anxiety"
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What area is now the focus of the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? What are some challenges of looking for something on the surface of the ocean? What kind of plane has been brought in to aid the search? If this plane spots something, what bigger challenge remains?
2. What is the world's oldest currency still in use? Describe the makeover that this coin is getting. Why is it being redesigned? In what ways could this redesign come at a cost for some businesses and the British government?
3. What is "math anxiety"? According to the video: What are some reasons why some people have math anxiety? How might an awareness of math anxiety help educators?
4. Who is Sharon Cohen? In what sport did she once compete? Why did she start Harlem Ice? What are the priorities for its skaters?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that the U.S. is sending military equipment to help in the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? Why do you think it is so important for the families of the passengers and crew and for the rest of the world to find the missing plane?
2. How do you think that technology has helped and hurt counterfeiters? How do governments respond to the possibility of counterfeit currency? Has the currency that you use changed over the past few years? If so, how? Why do you think that counterfeit currency is so dangerous to a country's economy?
3. Why do you think that some people are anxious about math? What might be some ways to overcome this fear?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
