(InStyle) -- After years in the bronze age, when sun-kissed cheeks and gloss reigned supreme, fall's return to glamour means that lipstick is making a major comeback. Lipstick outsold gloss by $76 million last year, and beauty companies are racing to launch new formulas that are more wearable than ever.
So pucker up. We'll show you how to apply lipstick perfectly, along with the most flattering shades for day and night.
For foolproof application, stick with sheer, subdued shades in the morning and save deep, bold colors (which require more time and precision) for night.
Daytime equation
1. Condition and protect with a balm that contains sunscreen, like Softlips Raspberry with Green Tea SPF 20. "Dab some on immediately after getting out of the shower, when your lips are still a little moist," suggests Hollywood pro Kara Yoshimoto Bua. The smoother your lips, the more perfect your lipstick will look.
2. Choose a soft shade such as rose or nude that you can apply straight from the tube. A hydrating formula ensures a smooth coat of color. Try Neutrogena Moistureshine Soothing Lipsheers in Fresh Rose.
3. Blot, reapply and blot again to remove excess oils and create a stain, says Bua. "The color looks more natural and lasts longer." Instead of tissues, use lint-free blotting papers, like Boscia Fresh Blotting Linens ($10).
Nighttime equation
1. Exfoliate before applying a bold hue like red or burgundy. Sally Hansen Gentle Peel for Rough Lips ($10; at drugstores) uses fruit enzymes to remove dry patches.
2. Create a base with a gel-based primer that fills in fine lines around the mouth and helps lipstick go on more smoothly. One to try: Olay Regenerist lip treatment ($19; at drugstores).
3. Define the borders of your mouth with a pencil to prevent color from bleeding, says Robin Fredriksz, who gave Barrymore her deep fuchsia lip. To avoid an unnaturally dark outline, use a shade that's lighter than your lipstick, like Revlon Colorstay lip liner in Plum ($8; at drugstores).
4. Brush on color for more control. Try: Shu Uemura Kolinsky Portable Extra lipbrush ($35) with Isadora Perfect Moisture lipstick in Bordeaux Red ($11).
Makeup artists' favorites
Just like us, cosmetics pros use the same lipsticks again and again. From the just right daytime rose to the classic evening red, here are some of their all-time go-to picks for day and night.
Carmindy's neutral picks for day are designed to "enhance your natural lip color." For night she recommends dark berry or true red for all skin tones. Her clients: Heidi Klum and Jamie-Lynn Sigler.
Day shades: Benefit Silky Finish in Candy Store, $16; Givenchy Rouge Interdit in Secret Pink, $26.
Night colors: Nars in Scarlet Empress, $23; Revlon Super Lustrous in Love That Red, $8; at drugstores.
AJ Crimson likes a subtle pink or sheer beige for all skin tones during the day. For night he recommends bright red for fair complexions and a deep purple for darker ones. His clients: Missy Elliot and Amerie.
Day shades: Chanel Rouge Hydrabase in Pink Sugar, $25; Laura Mercier in Candy Pink, ($22).
Night colors: Maybelline Moisture Extreme in Royal Red, $7; at drugstores; MAC in Cyber, ($14).
Melissa Silver uses fuchsia on cool skin tones and peachy nude on warm ones for day. For night, she says, "anyone can wear plum or sheer red." Her clients: Renée Zellweger and Cindy Crawford.
Day shades: Clinique Colour Surge Butter Shine in Fresh Watermelon, $14; Lancôme Le Rouge Absolu in Nectariche, $25.
Night colors: MAC in Spice It Up!, $14; Sonia Kashuk in Sheer Cherry Blossom, $8. E-mail to a friend
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2007 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
