(CNN Student News ) -- February 18, 2014
Stories from around the world highlight this edition of CNN Student News, as we lead with events in Venezuela and Russia. We'll also explore what seasonal affective disorder is, and we'll explain why Presidents Day officially doesn't exist.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why is it important for citizens to get objective information about their government and its opposition?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. inflation
2. seasonal affective disorder (SAD)
3. Lincoln Memorial
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Based on what you heard in the video, how would you describe Venezuela's government? Who was Hugo Chavez? Who is the current president of Venezuela? What action did he recently take regarding some American diplomats there?
2. According to the video, what is going on in the streets of Caracas? Why are students protesting? How has the president responded to them? How has his response impacted the student protests?
3. What is seasonal affective disorder? According to Dr. Gupta, what chemicals are out of balance in the brain, causing SAD? What do some doctors recommend people do to deal with SAD?
4. According to the report, why was the Lincoln Memorial almost never built? How long did it take to approve the site? How long did it take to complete the monument? What are some of the events that have taken place at the Lincoln Memorial?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you think it means to say that Venezuela's president has the media "on a tight leash," as described in the video? How might this affect the media's ability to report on what is going on in the country?
2. What is inflation? How does inflation impact consumers' buying power? What impact do you think high inflation has on a nation's economy? How might economic instability lead to political instability in a country?
3. What advice would you give to a friend who feels depressed during the winter?
4. Have you ever visited a memorial to a U.S. president? If so, describe it and the experience. Was there any symbolism associated with the memorial you visited? Explain. How does a presidential memorial give us insight into the personality and character of a chief executive?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
