Singer Chris Brown broke his silence Sunday, a week after allegedly attacking his girlfriend, fellow performer Rihanna, on a street in Los Angeles, California.
Chris Brown was arrested February 8 on suspicion of making criminal threats.
"Words cannot begin to express how sorry and saddened I am over what transpired," the 19-year-old said in a statement released by his spokesman. "I am seeking the counseling of my pastor, my mother and other loved ones and I am committed, with God's help, to emerging a better person."
He added, "Much of what has been speculated or reported on blogs and/or reported in the media is wrong. While I would like to be able to talk about this more, until the legal issues are resolved, this is all I can say except that I have not written any messages or made any posts to Facebook, on blogs or any place else. Those posts or writings under my name are frauds."
Police are investigating the incident.
A spokeswoman for the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office said Wednesday the office needed more information before deciding on whether to charge Brown.
Brown was arrested February 8 -- the day of the Grammy Awards, where he was scheduled to perform -- and booked on suspicion of making criminal threats, the spokeswoman said.
Brown, who did not appear at the awards show, was released from jail that night on $50,000 bail and given a March 5 court date.
Brown's lawyer did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
Police said Brown and a woman were in a vehicle near Hollywood's Hancock Park early February 8 when they became involved in an argument.
The woman "suffered visible injuries and identified Brown as her attacker," police said.
Police did not identify the woman, but sources close to the couple told CNN the alleged victim was his girlfriend, the 20-year-old singer Rihanna, whose full name is Robyn Rihanna Fenty.
She has made no public comment. Her spokesman issued only a short statement on the evening of February 8, when she canceled her performance at that night's Grammy Awards. "Rihanna is well," her spokesman said at the time. "Thank you for concern and support."
Police have refused media requests to hear the 911 call that led to their investigation.
CNN's Jennifer Wolfe and Brittany Kaplan contributed to this report.
