Comedian Jay Leggett, who produced a documentary about the joys of deer hunting, died of natural causes at the end of a deer hunt Saturday.
Leggett, 50, collapsed and died next to his all-terrain vehicle at the end of a hunt on the first day of gun deer season in his native Tomahawk, Wisconsin, according to Lincoln County sheriff's spokesman Mike Caylor. A deer that Leggett had killed was strapped to the ATV.
Leggett's 2011 film "To the Hunt: Deer Season in Tomahawk, Wisconsin" documented deer camp life and "the fun, family and fraternity of the hunt," according to promotional materials.
"The victim had returned to the cabin from his deer stand on an ATV," the sheriff's statement said. "When he got off the machine he collapsed and was found unresponsive by family members who immediately started CPR."
Paramedics were unable to revive Leggett and the coroner pronounced him dead at the scene, Caylor said.
Comedian, hunter, teacher
Leggett, who grew up in Tomahawk, performed with The Improv Olympic in Chicago, a company that included Mike Meyers, Chris Farley and Andy Richter. He left the company to join the cast of "In Living Color" for the TV sketch comedy series' 1993 season.
He acted in many other TV shows after moving to Los Angeles, but he also became a screenwriter. He wrote, produced and acted in the 2004 comedy film "Employee of the Month," starring Matt Dillon.
At the time of his death, Leggett was the lead instructor at Comedy Now L.A., teaching improv, acting and writing.
Adam Devine, the co-creator and star of Comedy Central's "Workaholics," called Leggett his "guru."
"RIP my friend, teacher and mentor Jay Leggett. You will be missed," Devine Tweeted Sunday.
Devine is quoted on the school's website calling hm "by far the best teacher I've ever had."
"He gave me the comedy chops I needed to become successful," Devine said. "It's simple: He'll make you the best you can be. He eats and sleeps comedy. And also real food and real sleep -- because he's not crazy. He also gave me my first paying comedy job which proves just how smart and insightful he really is."
People we lost in 2013
CNN's Jane Caffrey contributed to this report.
