(CNN)  -- Andy Roddick denied rising Canadian star Milos Raonic his second straight ATP Tour title as he rounded off a three-set final victory in Memphis with a diving forehand passing winner.
It wrapped up a 7-6 (9-7) 6-7 (11-13) 7-5 victory for the American top seed after Sunday's epic battle with his 20-year-old opponent, which lasted two hours 26 minutes.
"That's the best shot I've ever hit in my life, considering the circumstance," Roddick told the official ATP Tour website.
"He had a great volley there. I don't really remember much else besides the fact that I went for the ball. I hit it. I didn't really think much of it. Then I heard people cheering. I was like, 'No, there's no way that went in.' "
Raonic, who came to prominence by claiming the ATP title in San Jose last week as a wildcard entry, pushed the world number eight to the limit, leveling the match when he won a marathon second-set tiebreak.
His big serving eclipsed even Roddick, pummeling down 32 aces to take his tally for the week to 129 -- comfortably a new tournament record. Mark Philippoussis set the previous best total of 106 in 2001.
But Roddick's full-stretch winner on match-point in the 12th game of the decider gave him his 30th career title from 50 finals and his third victory in Memphis.
"I think I was very fortunate," Roddick added. "I feel like I got outplayed. I just stuck around and kept trying.
"He's as exciting a talent as we have seen in a while. It won't surprise me if he's top-10 sooner rather than later."
Roddick is third among active players in career titles, trailing only Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal after adding to his Memphis wins in 2002 and 2009.
Raonic, playing just his ninth top-level tournament, climbed to 37th in the world -- making him the highest-ranked Canadian player in ATP Tour history, surpassing the 41st reached by Greg Rusedski in 1994 before he opted for British citizenship.
"It's not by any means something to be too happy with because I want to keep improving that. I want to keep progressing and developing and I think I can do a lot more," Raonic said.
"A lot has happened since the beginning of the year. I'm going to take the moments I need, take the time, think about it, learn from it, as well as use it to my advantage in the future."
Raonic's compatriot Rebecca Marino suffered disappointment in the women's final in Memphis, having to withdraw with a stomach injury after losing the first set 6-2 to Slovakia's Magdalena Rybarikova.
In other tennis news Monday, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga has pulled out of France's Davis Cup tie against Austria next month with a hip injury.
France, who lost 3-2 to Serbia in last year's final, area already missing Gael Monfils for the match in Vienna.
