Ferrari president Luca di Montezemolo has promised that the Italian Formula One team will not make major changes for 2011 despite this year's title disappointment, and he tipped Felipe Massa to return to form.
Massa played very much a secondary role on his return to driving following his horror accident in July last year, and had to watch as new teammate Fernando Alonso was denied his third drivers' crown on the last day of the season.
Ferrari were criticized for the tactical decision to have Alonso follow Red Bull's Mark Webber into the pits early on in Abu Dhabi, which consequently helped the Australian's teammate Sebastian Vettel claim the race victory and his first world title.
However, Montezemolo backed Ferrari to bounce back next year with both drivers at the helm.
"That is the strength of Ferrari, in that we never give up," he told the Ferrari website. "Having been in Formula One for such a long time, this was certainly not the first time I have lost a world championship at the final race.
Ferrari 'astonished' by politician's rant
"Changes within the team? That is not our philosophy, because for years now we have adopted a policy based on dynamic stability: a few minor adjustments are possible, but no major upheaval.
"Alonso was amazing, both on and off the track: determined and full of self-belief, a real driving force. I expect a lot from Felipe next year: I am sure he will return to being the man we saw in 2008."
The Brazilian driver, who was denied the drivers' title by Lewis Hamilton at the final race two years ago, played down suggestions that he was battling for his future at Ferrari.
"I don't think 2011 signifies a crucial year for me. Fundamentally, I have been in this situation often," he told the team's website.
Massa impressed with new Pirelli tires
"I remember that at the start of 2006, many people said I would only last a year at Ferrari and then I won races that season and went on to stay for a long time more.
"This year, there were many who said I would have a difficult year after my accident in Budapest: it turned out that way, but not for that reason. Over the years, the names of at least 10 drivers have been put forward as replacements for me at Ferrari, but I am still here!"
Montezemolo also backed team principal Stefano Domenicali as the Scuderia seek to adapt to technical changes in 2011 and add to the marque's 15 drivers' titles and 16 constructors' crowns.
"I am very happy with the work with which Stefano Domenicali is moving us forward, with great ability, spirit and a sense of balance," the 63-year-old said.
"For 2011 there will be various technical changes, from the return of KERS to the arrival of Pirelli tires and an adjustable rear wing.
"We are starting from a solid base. I'm thinking here of the fact that at the end of last year, our energy recovery system was very competitive. As for the rear wing, I hope we start the season with total clarity as regards the regulations. I am not worried about it, but our experience of 2009 still grates."
Montezemolo revealed that 2011 will also be a big year for Ferrari both on and off the racetrack.
"We are finalizing the details for our first showroom in India, we are strengthening our position in China and the United States. In Formula One terms, we have very clear targets," he said.
"There is a great will to fight back and be ready for next season, when our aim is to have a car that, right from the start, is capable of winning so that we don't have to play catch-up."
