The scheduled arraignment of a California woman charged with murder for allegedly pushing her 7-month-old boy off the fourth story of a parking garage was delayed Thursday, a district attorney's spokeswoman said.
The arraignment for Sonia Hermosillo -- once planned for Thursday -- has been pushed back to Monday, said Farrah Emami, a spokeswoman for the Orange County District Attorney's Office.
Authorities initially charged Hermosillo, 31, of La Habra, California, with attempted murder. But after the boy died Wednesday, prosecutors upgraded it to one felony count of murder and one felony count of assault on a child with force likely to produce great bodily injury resulting in death.
If convicted, Hermosillo would face a maximum sentence of 25 years to life in state prison, according to the district attorney's office.
The incident occurred Monday at a parking garage at the Children's Hospital of Orange County.
A witness saw the baby fall and called police. Investigators interviewed several witnesses and reviewed a surveillance video from the garage.
The image of a license plate on a 2000 Chevy Blazer seen leaving the garage shortly after the incident led police to Hermosillo. Authorities found an empty child seat in Hermosillo's vehicle, according to a police statement.
The baby had medical conditions that required regular treatment at the children's hospital, the district attorney's office said, and he wore a helmet for one of his medical conditions.
"Hermosillo is accused of removing the victim's helmet and pushing her baby from the parking structure with the intention of murdering him with the four-story fall," the district attorney's office said.
She then walked inside the hospital, validated her parking and left the scene, the office said.
"Baby Noe," as the district attorney's statement referred to the infant, was critically injured and died Wednesday at the University of California-Irvine Medical Center.
The district attorney's statement said Hermosillo has two other children.
CNN's Jillian Ohlenschlaeger contributed to this report.
