English champions Manchester United agreed a deal to sign highly-rated young goalkeeper David de Gea from Atletico Madrid on Wednesday.
The 20-year-old, who helped Spain's under-21 team to win the European Championship title last weekend, passed a medical at Old Trafford on Monday and will join on a five-year contract.
He follows England winger Ashley Young and under-21 defender Phil Jones in moving to the UEFA Champions League finalists in post-season transfers.
De Gea, who had long been linked with United as a replacement for the retired Edwin van der Sar, is likely to miss the start of the club's pre-season tour of the U.S. as he has been given an immediate vacation by boss Alex Ferguson.
"The manager said that I should enjoy the holiday I've been afforded now, but of course I'm more excited about getting started in training and meeting my future teammates," De Gea told the club's television channel.
"Edwin has been the best goalkeeper in the world while here at United. I hope to emulate him and spend a great number of years here. Hopefully I will equal or even surpass the performance and contribution he made to the club."
Villas-Boas eyes immediate success at Chelsea
De Gea is the second new goalkeeper brought in by Ferguson, with Denmark international Anders Lindegaard signing in the January transfer window. Their arrival casts some doubt on the United future of Poland international Tomasz Kuszczak, who was Dutchman van der Sar's understudy.
"I am young but I'm coming here on the back of two full seasons in La Liga in Spain so I think I've got enough experience to contribute to such a big club," De Gea said.
"When a club the size of Manchester United comes in for you, it obviously makes you very happy. I saw their interest as an extra motivation to work even harder to show off my ability."
Spain's reign continues as under-21s win European crown
De Gea's international teammate Thiago Alcantara, who scored Spain's second goal in the final against Switzerland, has signed a new two-year contract with European champions Barcelona.
The 20-year-old is now tied to the Spanish league winners until mid-2015.
Spanish club Racing Santander have appointed Hector Cuper as coach to replace Marcelino Garcia Toral, who left to join Sevilla last month.
The 55-year-old Argentine has previously coached Valencia, guiding the La Liga club to Champions League finals in 2001 and 2001, and Italy's Inter Milan.
United's Premier League rivals Sunderland have signed England under-21 international striker Connor Wickham from second division club Ipswich for $12.8 million in a deal that could potentially be worth $19 million.
Wickham, 18, has agreed a four-year contract after being linked with moves to bigger clubs such as Liverpool, Arsenal and Tottenham.
French champions Lille have signed defender David Rozehnal after the Czech Republic international impressed on loan from German side Hamburg last season.
Nigerian goalkeeper Vincent Enyeama has also joined on a three-year deal from Israeli club Hapoel Tel Aviv.
Lille had already brought in strikers Dimitri Payet and Ronny Rodelin plus defender Marko Basa since winning a domestic double.
Ivory Coast international center-back Abdoulaye Meite has joined promoted French club Dijon on a three-year contract after leaving English side West Brom.
On a busy day for French clubs, Toulouse signed Turkey international striker Umut Bulut on a three-year deal from Turkish club Trabzonspor, while Sochaux loaned defender Steven Mouyokolo from England's Wolverhampton.
Italian club Fiorentina announced on Wednesday that Brazilian defender Romulo Caldeira will join once the 24-year-old has passed a medical, while Serbia under-21 defender Matija Nastasic is also expected to sign.
