Luis Suarez returned to Liverpool colors after an eight-game ban but the Uruguay striker couldn't transform his side's home fortunes as they were held to a 0-0 draw by Tottenham in the English Premier League.
Suarez's enforced spell on the sidelines came after the English Football Association found him guilty of racially abusing Manchester United's Patrice Evra, but he couldn't break the deadlock in a tense game.
The point was a blow for both teams as third-placed Tottenham failed to grab a victory that would have seen them close within five points of leaders Manchester CIty, and three points of Manchester United in second.
For Liverpool, the draw is their eighth at Anfield this season -- a run that has hit their chances of qualifying for the European Champions League. They sit seventh, four points behind Chelsea in fourth.
After the match Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish suggested Suarez shouldn't have been banned in the first place.
He told Sky Sports: "I'm delighted that he is back. He should never have been away but we've taken the punishment and we've moved on. It would have been unfair to start him, he's not played since Boxing Day."
Heavy fog in Liverpool meant that Tottenham's manager Harry Redknapp was unable to attend the match -- his flight from London was canceled after he had spent the day in court where he is being tried on a charge of tax evasion.
The first half offered little in the way of chances, Jay Spearing's shot that arrowed just wide of Tottenham goalkeeper Brad Friedel's post the highlight.
But the game came to life in the second half as Friedel saved Martin Kelly's long range shot before Suarez was introduced on 66 minutes to a standing ovation.
The striker wasted little time making an impact, but for the wrong reasons, as he was booked for kicking Scott Parker in the stomach while attempting a volley.
Suarez's strike partner Andy Carroll wasted a clear chance when he blazed over from 12 yards out after he'd taken down Steven Gerrard's cross.
It was Tottenham and Wales midfielder Gareth Bale who had the game's best chance as he went clean through on goal six minutes from time but he sent his shot straight at Pepe Reina.
In Spain, Granada beat Malaga 2-1 to climb out of the relegation zone in La Liga.
Odion Ighalo's opener for Granada was canceled out by Rondon but with nine minutes left Inigo Lopez scored the winner to move the home side into 14th place. Malaga remain eighth.
