Tuesday's fourth stage of the Giro d'Italia was turned into a tribute to tragic Belgian Wouter Weylandt, who died in a horror crash during Monday's third stage.
The 26-year-old Weylandt, who suffered a fatal accident on the descent of the Bocco climb, was honored by the peloton who refused to race the entire 216km stage from Genoa to Livorno -- effectively neutralizing the stage.
Before the stage, the peloton held a minute's silence for Weylandt, and along the route the streets were packed with people paying their respects to the rider, who had won the corresponding stage of last year's Giro.
Team Leopard rider Weylandt dies in Giro d'Italia crash
Leopard-Trek's remaining eight-man squad came over the finish line together, accompanied by Garmin rider Tyler Farrar, a training partner and close friend of Weylandt.
And Farrar issued a statement saying: "I am unbearably saddened by the loss of Wouter. As many know, he was my friend, training partner, and in many ways, another brother to me.
"His death marks an irreparable change in my life but more importantly, in the lives of his family and most loved.
"I can only convey my deepest of sympathies to everyone who cared about him as deeply as I did, especially his family, his friends, his team and his fans -- we celebrate his life and mourn his death in equal measure."
Farrar, who lived near to Weylandt in the Belgian city of Ghent, had already decided to leave the race following his friend's death and, late on Tuesday evening, the remaining Leopard-Trek riders also issued a statement saying they too were withdrawing from the race.
"The decision really needed to be taken by the riders, because they are the ones that participate in the race," said Leopard team manager Brian Nygaard.
"We have always said that we would stand behind their choice. We wish to thank the other teams, the race organization, the Italian authorities and all the fans on the road between Genova and Livorno on today's stage, as the peloton paid tribute to Wouter."
Team captain Fabian Wegmann explained the teams' decision. "We have a lot of respect for the Giro d'Italia and for cycling, but we simply cannot continue racing given the circumstances. We are professional athletes, but we feel this is the right thing to do."
After many riders had expressed their sadness in an outpouring of emotion on Twitter, the peloton agreed to award all prize money from Tuesday's stage to Weylandt's family.
Weylandt's partner Anne-Sophie -- who will give birth to the couple's first child in September -- also laid flowers at the scene of the tragedy, before traveling with Weylandt's parents to the hospital morgue in Lavagna, where his body is being held.
Meanwhile, pathologist Armando Mannucci told the Ansa news agency that Weylandt had "died instantly and did not suffer" after carrying out a two-and-a-half hour autopsy on the his body.
Dr. Mannucci concluded that Weylandt suffered fatal skull and facial injuries as well as damage to his pelvis and a broken leg after the accident -- which is believed to have occurred when the rider's left pedal briefly touched a wall at the side of the road, propelling him 20 meters to the ground below where he landed heavily on his face.
Racing will resume in Wednesday's fifth stage, a 191km ride from Piombino to Orvieto, with Briton David Millar holding the race leader's pink jersey.
