Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone has backed Red Bull's world champion Sebastian Vettel to match the achievements of fellow German driver Michael Schumacher.
Vettel, 23, claimed his maiden title during a dramatic final grand prix of the 2010 season in Abu Dhabi, while the 42-year-old Schumacher claimed seven titles between 1994 and 2004.
Ecclestone, 80, said the competition faced by Vettel is much tougher than when Schumacher -- who now races for Mercedes -- was so dominant for Ferrari.
"The competition Sebastian is facing is much bigger than that confronted by Michael," Ecclestone told Formula One's official web site.
"That makes Seb's wins even more noteworthy. I don't see a reason why there shouldn't be a Red Bull era just as Ferrari had theirs with Michael."
Red Bull claimed the constructors' title in 2010 to complete a clean-sweep of the sport's top honors, and the British-based Austrian marque have been equally successful in 2011 with Vettel winning six of the season's opening eight races.
Far from making the sport less appealing, Ecclestone is confident that Vettel's current supremacy increases fans' interest in the elite division of motorsport.
"Sebastian is in a similar position as Michael. Sebastian is the best right now and that's why he is dominating, and that's what makes it so interesting for the fans," Ecclestone said.
"Every race weekend starts with a big question mark -- who will be able to beat Vettel? That's why fans tune in."
Vettel, who also became Formula One's youngest champion with his 2010 success, extended his contract with Red Bull until 2014 in March this year, but had previously been linked with a switch to Italian outfit Ferrari.
Vettel, who started his career at Sauber in 2006 before joining Toro Rosso in July 2007, said he admired the proud history of teams like Ferrari and Mercedes, but he insisted he was happy with Red Bull.
"I feel completely happy at Red Bull. Of course Ferrari and Mercedes do come with a huge legend, but I am not into myth right now. What's important for me is that when I come from the track and look in the mirror in my hotel room I want to be able to say, 'Yes, that's me and I am satisfied with what I see.'
"After Abu Dhabi it feels good to know that I don't have anything to prove to myself anymore."
Schumacher returned to racing with Mercedes at the beginning of the 2010 campaign, having originally retired from Formula One in 2006.
The veteran driver has struggled for form since making his surprise comeback, with his recent fourth placing at the rain-affected Canadian Grand Prix a rare highlight.
The 2011 season continues with the British Grand Prix at Silverstone on July 10, a race won last year by Vettel's Red Bull teammate Mark Webber.
