Chelsea this week returned to London as newly-crowned champions of the fifth Barclay's Asia Cup in Hong Kong.
Taking on two other English teams as well as Kitchee, the Hong Kong champions, the English Premier League's runners-up last season used the competition to put the finishing touch on a summer of preparation, and to raise the club's profile in this part of the world.
In truth, the outcome was never seriously in doubt, despite the presence of Premier League opponents Aston Villa and Blackburn Rovers.
Such is the financial muscle of a moneyed group of clubs, who include Chelsea, Manchester United, Arsenal and Manchester City, the rest of England's top flight increasingly seem to exist to make up the numbers.
Manchester City used to be in this latter group, before a massive cash injection from billionaire Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, a member of Abu Dhabi's ruling family, catapulted City into football's big time.
However, the club is hemorrhaging money, as a sky-high wage bill coupled with the payment of exorbitant transfer fees exceeds what it actually earns in ticket sales, sponsorship and other commercial deals. But as long as their wealthy benefactor's largesse continues and success accompanies it, neither the owners nor the fans particularly mind.
Chelsea also has a rich owner, Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich, who made headlines in 2003 by purchasing the club outright and declaring that they would immediately be a force to be reckoned with.
The London club certainly look like contenders this season if last weekend's performance is any indication -- no goals conceded in four matches held across three countries - but their impact off the field is most eye-catching.
Chelsea played in front of 85,000 fans in Malaysia, while another packed stadium greeted them in Hong Kong when they faced Villa in the Asia Cup final. That's tens of thousands of Asian-based fans buying tickets and merchandise such as replica shirts as they lapped up a rare opportunity to watch their heroes in the flesh. Not a bad little earner.
Gate receipts for the Barclay's Asia Trophy totaled almost HK$20 million over the two days, according to the Hong Kong Football Association (HKFA), but local organizer ProEvents Management says that the tournament's use is much wider -- as a vehicle for promoting the Premier League brand. "The issue of whether it makes money isn't the issue," says Paul Kam, Chairman of ProEvents. "It is a very important market for the clubs. The benefits are long term."
It is a sentiment echoed by Chelsea's new man.
"It would be unreasonable for us not to do preseasons like this and not touch the amount of fans that we have," André Villas-Boas, newly installed manager at the club, told CNN ahead of the tournament. "We have to respect [both] our commercial activities and the football planning, and at this moment we have been balancing it properly."
Fans in Asia seem to be grateful that the League's big guns are concentrating on this region. "It's the first time I've seen them play and it was a great experience," says Eric Yiu, a Hong Kong fan who started supporting Chelsea three years ago. "I was lucky, a friend gave me tickets."
Hong Kong is not exactly an undeveloped market for the England's Premier League. In 2006 cable operator PCCW paid HK$1.56 billion (US$200million) for the broadcast rights to Premier League games. The casual Hong Kong fan is likely more familiar with the star names at Chelsea and their counterparts at other high-flying clubs than they are with local professionals.
Expanding a support base is set to become even more important for clubs. The sport's European governing body, UEFA, seeks to impose punitive measures on clubs who fail to balance their books.
Beginning in the 2012-13 season, the Financial Fair Play (FFP) rules stress that income should be earned from football-related activities and are designed to straiten those clubs who operate outside of normal profit-and-loss structures. Clubs found guilty of breaking FFP rules will be banned from European competition -- a huge disincentive given the popularity, prestige and profile that playing in the UEFA Champion's League brings.
Cynics will point out that accounting sleights of hand will essentially render FFP rules meaningless. Newly-wealthy Manchester City, for example, recently announced a stadium naming rights deal with Etihad, the airline wing of their own parent company, Abu Dhabi United Group. The club's Chief Executive, Garry Cook, said the deal was "one of the most important arrangements in the history of world football."
At $US 651M, the 10-year arrangement is far outside the market price for similar naming rights and it has been suggested that this, amongst other, equally creative ways of getting money into the club provides clubs like City with a loophole to avoid FFP stricture.
The club's rivals, including Arsenal's outspoken manager Arsene Wenger, have cried foul of the deal, which Wenger describes as part of City's ongoing "financial doping," giving some teams an unfair advantage over their less wealthy opponents.
"The credibility of financial fair play is at stake," Wenger said at the time of the deal's announcement.
"The backdrop is UEFA's Financial Fair Play and this helps to make significant progress in that area," Cook said when announcing the sponsorship deal. "This is not just a wide-ranging agreement. It is a long-term commitment." UEFA are currently looking into the case to determine its legitimacy and they may yet not avoid censure.
English football is now a global concern, with teams from the top tier jetting across the globe, trying to pry open new, lucrative markets -- clubs looking to export the passion and excitement of English football to a new, enthusiastic audience.
As the playing field soon looks to be leveled, it looks likely that these foreign forays will become even more important to teams looking to stay onside of UEFA's rules.
