McLaren's Lewis Hamilton has apologized for causing a collision with Japanese driver Kamui Kobayashi which ended the Briton's involvement in Sunday's Belgian Grand Prix.
The 2008 world champion Hamilton overtook the Sauber racer on the 13th lap heading into the corner known as Les Combes, but the 26-year-old failed to see Kobayashi making a counter move.
The two cars subsequently made contact with Hamilton spinning into the barriers and out of the race.
The crash prompted the Briton  to apologize to Kobayashi and his McLaren team via the social-networking site Twitter.
"After watching the replay, I realize it was my fault today [Sunday] 100%. I didn't give Kobayashi enough room though I thought I was past," tweeted Hamilton.
20 years of Schumacher: Is his legacy on the line?
"Apologies to Kamui and to my team. The team deserves better from me. Best wishes, Lewis."
Hamilton's retirement from the Spa race left him fifth in the drivers' standings, 113 points behind the Red Bull of championship leader Sebastian Vettel.
Vettel, who claimed the world title in 2010, took the checkered flag in Belgium ahead of teammate Mark Webber, with Hamilton's McLaren colleague Jenson Button recovering from 13th on the grid to take third position.
Button, a world champion in 2009, was pleased with his performance and the condition of his car.
"Our car is the best it's been all year, and I feel better than I ever have in Formula 1," the 31-year-old told McLaren's official web site. "We just need to stop the little mistakes from happening so that we can win even more races."
Meanwhile, Polish driver Robert Kubica underwent surgery on Sunday for the final time on arm injuries sustained during a pre-season rally crash.
Renault driver Kubica crashed out of the Ronde de Andorra rally in Italy in February, and was subsequently replaced by German driver Nick Heidfeld for the beginning of the 2011 season.
Renault released a statement which said the surgery was a "total success," after the former Sauber driver awoke from the procedure in good spirits.
"Robert underwent one last scheduled operation in Italy, aimed at recovering the full mobility of his right elbow," read the statement.
"The surgeons are happy to report that they have been able to complete 100% of their task and did not encounter any complications. They have described the outcome of the operation as 'a total success.'
"On waking up, it was immediately clear Robert was in good spirits. Why? Well, as soon as he opened his eyes, he asked for the results of today's race! He will now rest in hospital for a few days before resuming his rehabilitation and training program."
