David Haye is to defend his world heavyweight title in an all-British clash with former Olympic gold medallist Audley Harrison.
The two former friends and sparring partners will go head-to-head on November 13 in Manchester, England, and announced the bout at an ill-tempered press conference.
Haye won the World Boxing Association's heavyweight crown when he defeated Russian Nikolay Valuev in November last year. He then successfully defended his title against American veteran John Ruiz in April.
Harrison shot to prominence when he won a gold medal in the super heavyweight division at the Sydney Games of 2000 but has struggled to fulfill his potential since.
The 38-year-old won the European Boxing Union's heavyweight title when he beat fellow Brit Michael Sprott in April.
Haye recently failed to negotiate a fight with either Vitali Klitschko, the World Boxing Council heavyweight champion, or his brother Wladimir, the holder of the World Boxing Organization and the International Boxing Federation heavyweight belts.
Haye told the press conference: "I don't believe Audley deserves a shot but fortunately, or unfortunately for him, there's enough people who want to see him finally destroyed.
"I get more emails to fight Audley Harrison than anyone else in the world. People want me to close the curtain on the joke that is the Audley Harrison show.
"Audley has known me for years, he knows how devastating I am in the ring. He knows it first hand from sparring sessions. I'm no joke.
"I'm the most devastating fighter on the planet. This is the time your career gets well and truly finished."
The bout is the most high-profile all-British heavyweight clash for 17 years, since Lennox Lewis stopped former champion Frank Bruno to defend his WBC crown in Cardiff.
Harrison, who will get his first chance at a world title since turning professional after his Olympic success, told the press conference: "He [Haye] is a guy I groomed. I have tasted his punches and power and he never hurt me in a training session.
"This is my destiny - on 13 November Audley Harrison will be champion of the world and of that there is no doubt. If David Haye thinks I've taken this fight strictly for a payday, he is in for a rude awakening."
