Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned U.N. delegates Monday not to overlook the threats posed by Iran and Hamas in their zeal to defeat the terror group ISIS.
"Ladies and gentlemen, would you let ISIS enrich uranium? Would you let ISIS build a heavy-water reactor? Would you let ISIS develop intercontinental ballistic missiles. Of course, you wouldn't,"  Netanyahu said.
"Then you mustn't let the Islamic state of Iran do those things either, because here's what will happen," he said. "Once Iran produces atomic bombs, all the charms and all the smiles will suddenly disappear. They'll just vanish. And it's then that the ayatollahs will show their true face and unleash their aggressive fanaticism on the entire world."
Netanyahu praised the growing effort to defeat ISIS, the militant group that has seized large swaths of Syria and Iraq, but simultaneously chastised many of the countries joining that coalition for failing, he said, to recognize that ISIS and Hamas "are branches of the same poisonous tree."
"For the militant Islamists, all politics is global," he said. "Because their ultimate goal is to dominate the world. Now that threat might seem exaggerated to some, since it starts out small, like a cancer that attacks a particular part of the body. But left unchecked, the cancer grows, metastasizing over wider and wider areas.
"To protect the peace and the security of the world, we must remove this cancer before it's too late," he said.
He also compared militant Islamists to the Nazis who led Germany in World War II, saying extremists today seek world domination, as did Adolf Hitler's minions.
"The Nazis believed in a master race. The militant Islamists believe in a master faith," he said. "They just disagree who among them will be the master of the master faith. That's what they truly disagree about."
Netanyahu's speech was a "blatant manipulation of the facts," Hanan Ashrawi, a member of the executive committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization, said in statement issued shortly after the speech.
"Blaming the victim has always been the failed policy of the politically and morally bankrupt, and Netanyahu is no exception," Ashrawi said.
