As Democrats gather in Charlotte this week to nominate Barack Obama for president again, we have an opportunity to convey a clear and convincing message.
With many voters still undecided and even more with no intention to vote at all, the Democratic Party must work hard to explain what it has done so far and what it wants to do next. It must also highlight the stark differences between the two parties.
Fortunately, the men and women tasked with key speaking roles this week are insightful, loyal and exciting Democrats.
Schlossberg Opinion: Young voters, don't give up on Obama
Although we can expect each speaker to explain every reason to re-elect Obama, we can look to certain ones to speak on specific issues with authority, experience and passion.
Americans can watch and listen to former President Bill Clinton defend and applaud the president's economic record. Clinton, perhaps more than anyone, understands the severity of the mess inherited by Obama. After all, Clinton handed then President George W. Bush a budget surplus in 2001 and saw it grow into the largest deficit in our nation's history.
Clinton understands what is like to make the tough decisions from the Oval Office and he says Obama is the right man for the job.
First lady will set the tone for the convention with Tuesday speech
Americans should pay close attention to Sen. John Kerry, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, as he details Obama's foreign policy record.
Kerry's chairmanship, his record as a decorated war hero, and his long-time involvement in American foreign policy mean that his perspective carries tremendous weight. Issues of national security are to be taken seriously as is Kerry's judgment of the president.
And in the keynote address — the first ever by a Hispanic — Americans can expect to hear how San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro's inspiring family story is a reflection of the American dream that we all share.
Castro can explain better than most the hard work and determination required to succeed. He can detail exactly how the Democratic Party intends to ensure that those opportunities remain available to all American children.
Rising Latino star in Democratic Party to deliver keynote address
The most anticipated speech will be when my mother, Caroline Kennedy, takes the stage on Thursday to talk about my teenage years in much detail.
Actually, she'll explain how President Obama has kept alive the dream fought for by her father and uncles.
Finally, to see behind the president's cool exterior and better understand him as a man, husband and father, Americans can watch first lady Michelle Obama speak on behalf of the man she loves.
Mrs. Obama knows where our president's heart is and she can speak to his character with more conviction than anyone else. Americans should listen to their first lady as she explains her husband as only she can.
