(CNN Student News) -- October 31, 2013
In our first story, we hear how Secretary Sebelius responds to criticism of the Obamacare website, and we discuss how the law might affect millions of Americans' existing health care coverage. Next, it's off to Germany, where officials are angry about alleged, Cold War-style espionage. After reporting on a salvage operation from Blackbeard's flagship, we discuss the booming business of Halloween.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What are some different types of news stories that could be produced about Halloween? What kinds of video would you select for a news story on Halloween?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. health insurance
2. Cold War
3. pirate ship
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What are some recent controversies surrounding the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) and its enrollment website? What did Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius say regarding the website yesterday?
2. Who was the captain of the Queen Anne's Revenge? What kind of ship was it? Why is it in the news today?
3. What are some popular types of candy given out on Halloween? What are some other things consumers buy for this holiday?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you think supporters and critics of Obamacare might say regarding the next steps in dealing with this law? In your view, what could each side do to gain public support for its plan? What do you think should be done to address issues concerning Obamacare?
2. How do you think a country's citizens might view intelligence-gathering or spying? How might their views change depending on whether this was conducted on a nation's own citizens, its allies, or its rivals? What are your views on intelligence-gathering or spying?
3. What qualities might make a shipwreck historically significant? What do you think might be the potential benefits and challenges of recovering artifacts from a submerged shipwreck?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Europe
Germany
North America
North Carolina
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
