A judge threw out a  high-profile murder case Monday against Shrien Dewani, who was accused of killing his wife while they were on their honeymoon in South Africa.
Judge Jeanette Traverso called the state's case "weak" and said evidence fell "far below" the standard needed for conviction.
It took years for prosecutors to bring him to trial over the killing of his wife, Anni.
Dewani, 34, was accused of hiring hit men to kill her in Cape Town in November 2010.
He has repeatedly denied orchestrating the killing, pleading not guilty at the start of the trial in October.
South African authorities were locked in a three-year court battle to get Dewani extradited from the UK to face trial.
But after the prosecution put forward its witnesses, the defense sought to have the charges dropped, citing a lack of evidence.
Differences seen in witnesses' accounts
Traverso found there was no reasonable chance a court would convict Dewani unless he took the stand and incriminated himself, CNN legal analyst Kelly Phelps said Monday.
Other witnesses contradicted each other and could not be taken at face value because they were accomplices to the killing of Anni Dewani, Phelps explained. She said it was likely that the judge's decision would be the end of the case, because the prosecution "can only appeal if the judge erred on a matter of law."
Addressing reporters outside the court, National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesman Nathi Mncube referred to "a lack of understanding" in the case.
"Firstly we have three people who have been convicted in this case, ideally you would want to have all conspirators all tried together at the same time, but unfortunately that could not happen, not because of the NPA or anyone else, but because of the fact that we could not extradite Mr. Dewani in time so that he could be tried with the other three accused," Mncube said.
The killing took place during a taxi ride through a township on the edge of Cape Town, just over two weeks after the couple's wedding.
The taxi driver, Zola Tongo, confessed within weeks of the bride's death that he had hired two men to kill her. In a plea deal with South African authorities, he said Dewani paid him to carry out the killing and to make it look as though the couple were the victims of a carjacking.
Tongo was subsequently sentenced to 18 years in prison for his part in the killing. His two accomplices also received lengthy sentences for their role in the crime. One of them died of brain cancer in October, The Guardian reported.
Family hoping for answers
Dewani, a care home owner, returned to the United Kingdom after his wife's death. He avoided extradition to South Africa on mental health grounds during a lengthy court battle, but he was eventually sent back in April to face trial.
What's life like in a South African prison?
Psychiatric experts said that he was suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and depression and that he'd tried to take his life. Before his extradition, he was held at a secure mental health unit in southwest England.
But in August, he was declared fit to stand trial after undergoing psychiatric observation, according to South African media.
An indictment in the case said he faced charges including conspiracy to commit kidnapping, robbery with aggravating circumstances, murder and kidnapping, the South African Press Association reported.
Dewani, from Bristol in southwest England, said his wife was the victim of a carjacking and denied any involvement in the killing.
