European football's governing body, UEFA has revealed that 32 of its 54 member states have declared an interest in hosting matches at the 2020 European Championships.
Traditionally, the tournament is hosted by one or two nations, but matches in 2020 will be shared between 13 cities across Europe.
UEFA, who announced a change in format for the tournament's 60th anniversary last December, welcomed the enthusiastic response from the national football associations.
"We are extremely proud to see the huge interest in the bidding process, with more than half of our member associations willing to host matches at UEFA EURO 2020," UEFA President Michel Platini said.
"The finals will be a great celebration of football across the European continent, and the 60th anniversary edition will be truly special, by really coming to the doorstep of all football fans."
Platini initially floated the idea following the 2012 championships hosted by Poland and Ukraine and a decision to change the format was agreed by UEFA's Executive Committee last December before being confirmed in January.
The format, dubbed a "Euro for Europe," has attracted interest from reigning Euro champions, Spain and the other traditional powerhouses of European football -- Germany, France, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Greece and England.
"UEFA's 'EURO for Europe' in 2020 promises to be a fitting way to recognise 60 years of the UEFA European Championship," said England Football Association secretary Alex Horne in a statement.
"It would be great to see England playing in front of their home fans here in London as part of a EURO Finals tournament but many countries have also put themselves forward as hosts and we expect this to be a very competitive bidding process."
Less illustrious footballing nations including Armenia, Israel, Kazakhstan and Wales have also thrown their hat into the ring.
UEFA says all 32 associations can submit a maximum of two bids -- one which covers three group matches and one knockout round and another which will vie to host the semifinal and final.
The closing date for bids is April 25 with UEFA's Executive Committee announcing the host cities on September 25 next year.
The full list of countries and their proposed host cities is as follows: Armenia (Yerevan), Azerbaijan (Baku), Belarus (Minsk), Belgium (Brussels), Bulgaria (Sofia), Croatia (Zagreb), Czech Republic (Prague), Denmark (Copenhagen), England (London), Finland (Helsinki), France (Lyon), Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (Skopje), Germany (Munich), Greece (Athens), Hungary (Budapest), Israel (Jerusalem), Italy (Rome, Milan), Kazakhstan (Astana), Netherlands (Amsterdam), Poland (Warsaw, Chorzow), Portugal (Lisbon, Porto), Republic of Ireland (Dublin), Romania (Bucharest), Russia (St Petersburg), Scotland (Glasgow), Serbia (Belgrade), Spain (Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao, Valencia), Sweden (Solna), Switzerland (Basel), Turkey (Istanbul), Ukraine (Kyiv, Donetsk) and Wales (Cardiff).
