(CNN Student News) -- September 17, 2013
Today's show begins with a report on a shooting at a U.S. Navy facility in the nation's capital. We also share the results of a U.N. investigation into chemical weapons in Syria, and we hear how residents react to severe flooding in Colorado. Plus, as America marks Constitution Day, CNN Student News tests students' knowledge of the historic document with our Constitution quiz.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What challenges might journalists face in reporting on news as it happens? What could they do to verify information in situations of breaking news?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. precipitation
2. war crime
3. U.S. Constitution
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is known about a shooting that happened at the Washington Navy Yard yesterday?
2. In what country did the Mount Sinabung volcano erupt?
3. Who is known as the "Father of the U.S. Constitution"?
Discussion Questions:
1. What questions remain unanswered about a shooting at the Washington Navy Yard? How do you think law enforcement is searching for answers to these questions?
2. What do you think might be some of the damage associated with massive flooding in Colorado and Mexico? What do you think might be some of the priorities for officials and survivors of flooding? What kinds of repairs and recovery efforts might be needed in the long term?
3. Why might it be important for a government to establish a written constitution? What do you think has contributed to the U.S. Constitution's longevity?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Washington, D.C.
Colorado
Mexico
Asia
Syria
Indonesia
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
