(CNN)But we have to pick ONE pet
And pick it out soon.
You know mother told us
To get back by noon!
If that cadence sounds familiar, but you can't place the words, don't be alarmed.
That phrase is from a new -- that's right, new -- Dr. Seuss book scheduled to be released in July.
More than 20 years after his death in 1991, a box filled with text and sketches will come to life in the latest creation by Theodor Seuss Geisel, aka Dr. Seuss: "What Pet Should I Get?"
The story "captures the excitement of a classic childhood moment -- choosing a pet," publisher Random House Children's Books said in a release.
Geisel's widow, Audrey Geisel, found the manuscripts and illustrations in their La Jolla, California, home soon after her husband died. She set the materials aside, only to rediscover them in 2013 while cleaning out his office.
"While undeniably special, it is not surprising to me that we found this because Ted always worked on multiple projects and started new things all the time," Audrey Geisel said in the release.
The publisher said it expects to release two additional books from the materials that were found.
Cathy Goldsmith, Dr. Seuss' former art director, said she believes Geisel wrote "What Pet Should I Get?" between 1958 and 1962.
"The brother and sister in the book are the same as those in his bestselling Beginner Book 'One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish,' which was published in 1960," Goldsmith said.
According to the release, Goldsmith is the last Random House publishing executive to have worked directly with Geisel while he was alive.
"My connection to Ted remains as vital as it was when we worked closely together years ago -- I know he is looking down, watching over the process, and I feel a tremendous responsibility to do everything just as he would have done himself," she said.
Audrey Geisel said the timing of the new release is extra special for her.
"It is especially heartwarming for me as this year also marks twenty-five years since the publication of the last book of Ted's career, Oh, the Places You'll Go!" she said.
