The European football transfer window has finally closed for the summer after a typically frantic last day's activity.
In seasons past, deadline day has seen a flurry of transfers and drama, with last-minute agreements being confirmed in the final moments of the market remaining open -- and this year's was certainly no different.
And, despite the window now being closed, there could still be last-minute news of Tottenham beating the deadline to sign Real Madrid's Dutch international midfielder Rafael van der vaart.
That transfer will be announced once all the relevant paperwork has been checked, but here is a brief rundown of how the day unfolded.
Confirmed 1800 GMT: Following the signing of Robinho, Milan have allowed striker Marco Borriello to join Serie A rivals Roma, while long-serving Milan defender Kakha Kaladze has left the club to sign for Genoa.
Rumor 1710 GMT: Cracking rumor this one -- with ten minutes left to go on the English deadline Dutch midfielder Rafael van der Vaart is said to be heading to Tottenham Hotspur according to British broadcaster Sky Sports.
Confirmed 1705 GMT: Ghana's Asamoah Gyan signs for English Premier League side Sunderland for a $20 million club record fee from Rennes.
Sunderland's official club website confirmed the 24-year-old World Cup star has signed a four-year contract.
Confirmed 1700 GMT: The rumor was true! Robinho -- the most expensive signing in English football history -- has left Manchester City to sign for AC Milan on a four-year contract. He will link-up with Zlatan Ibrahimovic and compatriots Ronaldinho and Alexandre Pato in an exciting looking forward line.
Rumor 1600 GMT: English media report that Liverpool have made a bid to sign England international striker Carlton Cole from rivals West Ham.
Confirmed 1530GMT: English Premier League Birmingham City pull off a transfer coup by signing former Arsenal midfielder Alexander Hleb from Barcelona on a one-year loan deal. They have also signed Czech defender Martin Jiranek from Spartak Moscow for an undisclosed fee.
Confirmed 1430GMT: Liverpool sign left-back Paul Konchesky from Premier League rivals Fulham on a four-year contract for an undisclosed fee. Finnish striker Lauri Dalla Valle and Swedish winger Alex Kacaniklic move to Fulham in the opposite direction.
Rumor 1345 GMT: Speculation from British broadcaster Sky Sports suggest that Australia goalkeeper Mark Schwarzer will not be joining city-rivals Arsenal from Fulham.
Despite two formal bids and the saga lasting for many months it seems that Fulham did not want to send the 37-year-old on his way without a replacement having been found.
Confirmed 1300 GMT: La Liga side Hercules have confirmed the signing of France striker David Trezeguet on their official website. The star joins the newly-promoted side after ten years with Juventus, after signing a two-year contract.
Rumor 1230 GMT: Gazzetta dello Sport report that Serie A Lazio side are working out a loan deal to sign Paraguay striker Roque Santa Cruz. It would see the 29-year-old move on a one-year loan deal, the stumbling block being his personal terms.
Rumor 1205 GMT: Ghana striker and World Cup star Asamoah Gyan is in Sunderland where the Black Star is expected to sign after completing a medical with the Black Cats. Fees of around £12 million are subject to speculation.
Confirmed 1200 GMT: Bundesliga leaders Hoffenheim has snapped up Iceland midfielder Gyfil Sigurdsson from English second division side Reading. A club record fee was paid for the player according the Reading website.
Rumor 1150 GMT: Brazil striker Robinho flies into Milan with speculation rife he is due to sign a transfer deal with AC Milan.  The move would see him team up with the Rossoneri's recent capture from Barcelona Zlatan Ibrahimovic.
Rumor 1145 GMT: Italian news agency Ansa has reported that Juve have paid Arsenal 500,000 euros to take 20-year-old left-back Armand Traore on loan from the English side. The Turin club will have an option to make the deal permanent at the end of the season.
Confirmed 1130 GMT: Argentina midfielder and captain Javier Mascherano is finally unveiled after completing his move from English Premier League side Liverpool to Barcelona, the Spanish reigning champions confirmed on their official website.
The 26-year old has signed a four-year deal with the Catalan side, after passing a five-hour medical.
"This is an opportunity of a lifetime's a team full of great players and I'm going to have the chance to play with players who I admire," he told the official FIFA website.
Confirmed 1115 GMT: Juventus announce the departure of Italy midfielder Mauro Camoranesi, as the 33-year-old signs for Bundesliga side Stuttgart.
"Those who love Juventus will always remember Mauro Camoranesi with affection and gratitude,'' read an official statement from the Turin club.
Confirmed 1000 GMT: Dutch striker Klaas-Jan Huntelaar has moved from AC Milan to German side Schalke.
The 27-year-old, who formerly played for Real Madrid, told his official website he had left Milan due to the arrival of Ibrahimovic.
"Negotiations were tougher than expected. I am happy to have Klaas-Jan. He will help us," Schalke boss Magath told Bild newspaper.
Confirmed 0945 GMT: Spanish side Valencia confirm the capture of defender Marius Stankevicius from Serie A side Sampdoria. The Lithuanian's move was confirmed on the official website of the Italian club.
The deadline closes at 1700 GMT in England and midnight across Europe.
