Nico Rosberg dominated the final, vital qualifying session of the 2014 F1 season in Abu Dhabi, putting the German in the box seat for the World Championship title.
The Mercedes driver, who has endured a fine but torrid season alongside his rival Lewis Hamilton, led the session from the start as Hamilton put in an error strewn performance to finish second, 0.386 seconds behind Rosberg, and set up a mouthwatering race in the Middle East on Sunday.
Neck and neck
Rosberg and Hamilton have clashed on and off the track during a season dominated by Mercedes. The two drivers have gone neck and neck for most of the season before a late spurt of form from Hamilton put him ahead for the last race.
But a controversial rule change that awards double points for the last race of the season means that Hamilton's 17 point championship lead is far more precarious than it should have been.
"It's only one step, a very small step," Rosberg said after securing his 11th pole of the season. His performance meant that Mercedes managed to secure every single pole this season, a feat that hasn't been seen by an engine manufacturer since Ford achieved the same in 1969.
Hamilton still favorite
Hamilton, meanwhile, is still the favorite to walk away with the title. As long as he finishes second, Rosberg's performance is immaterial.
"I generally didn't have the best of laps but I enjoyed the qualifying session," said Hamilton. "Tomorrow is going to be a special day ... This weekend is about the championship, not about pole position."
Senna-Prost
All eyes will be on the first corner, reviving memories of the great Senna-Prost rivalry of the 1980s.
Argument still rages over whether Prost intentionally crashed into Senna at the first corner at Suzuka in 1989, effectively securing him the championship. Prost has always denied the accusation.
When asked how he will approach the first corner, Hamilton replied: "Same as every time."
Wolff steps back
Mercedes team chief Toto Wolff, who had been highly critical of Rosberg after he clashed with Hamilton in Belgium early on in the season, has denied that any instructions have been issued before Sunday's race.
"I won't tell them anything anymore," he said. "They are in their own little bubble and concentrating on the race. I think we should leave them in peace now to concentrate on tomorrow."
Red Bull sanction
Meanwhile, an unusual presence will be found at the back of the grid before Sunday's race. Red Bull was excluded from qualifying and relegated to the last row after a technical investigation found they had been using illegal cars.
Former champion Sebastian Vettel and 2014 break out star Daniel Ricciardo will start last after a stewards' investigation found that their cars had been fitted with illegal parts.
According to AFP race stewards released a statement confirming they had "determined a breach of the regulations had been committed".
An unhappy Red Bull team claimed they had been singled out for punishment, but accepted the sanction.
"We are disappointed that we have been singled out for a front wing deflection test when it is clear that other teams are interpreting the rules in a similar fashion," Red Bull said in a statement, quoted by AFP.
"The team accepts the decision of the stewards and will start the race from the back of the grid."
