Rapper Heavy D died of a blood clot in his lung and other conditions, a coroner's report revealed Tuesday.
The rapper, famous for the 1991 hit "Now That We Found Love," died Nov. 8 after collapsing at his Beverly Hills home.
The Los Angeles County Department of Coroner determined the 44-year-old died of a pulmonary embolism, deep leg vein thrombosis, and arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
Heavy D, whose real name is Dwight Errington Myers, was found conscious with difficulty breathing at his home after police were called, the Beverly Hills police said.
He was pronounced dead in the emergency room at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center later that day, officials said.
While his hip-hop recording career began in 1987 with his group Heavy D & the Boyz, his breakthrough came in 1991 with a remake of the O'Jays' "Now That We Found Love."
Heavy D's rapping was featured on Janet Jackson's 1990 hit "Alright." He also rapped on Michael Jackson's 1991 hit "Jam," which he performed at October's Michael Jackson tribute show in Cardiff, Wales.
He also composed and performed the theme songs several television shows, including "In Living Color," "MADtv" and "The Tracy Morgan Show."
His last album, "Love Opus," was released this year.
Heavy D also pursued an acting career, which included mostly roles on TV shows and movies.
He played a courthouse guard in the Eddie Murphy film "Tower Heist," released last month.
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) are serious medical conditions that are often undiagnosed, but they are preventable, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
DVT occurs when a blood clot forms in a deep vein, usually in the lower leg, thigh or pelvis. It can happen to anyone, but there are many risk factors that increase the chances of developing the condition.
Among those factors is obesity, and Heavy D was known for being overweight.
PE is the most serious complication of DVT and happens when part of the clot breaks off and travels through the bloodstream to the lungs, the CDC says.
People may recover from having a small clot, but a large one can stop blood from reaching the lungs and is fatal.
CNN's Alan Duke and Jack Hannah contributed to this report.
