Wladimir Klitschko has told CNN Sport that he believes he has put a touch of reality into David Haye's life, after winning their heavyweight unification fight in Hamburg earlier this month.
Klitschko, along with elder brother Vitali, spoke to CNN in London as they showed off all five belts and the Ring Magazine belt they now hold jointly between them.
Both brothers are still angry with the way Haye bad-mouthed them before the fight, but Wladimir believes that his unanimous points victory might now lead to the Briton altering the way he behaves in the future.
Klitschko dominates Haye in heavyweight showdown
"It was definitely nice to beat David. Aside from taking his belt it was good to just show him the way to behave properly -- it was kinda reality rehab for David Haye to become a better person," Wladimir told Don Riddell.
"He will now be better in the ring, and outside the ring, because I think he lifted himself off the ground a bit and we have put him back down on the ground.
"I'm very happy to achieve my goal as a therapist, as Doctor Klitschko for David Haye, and everything that is happening to him is good experience that he cannot buy in a shop," added Wladimir.
"You have to gain it in your life and that's what's happening to David Haye right now, so it's a belt for me but it's also a lesson for him for the future."
Wladimir also revealed that the victory over Haye was the highlight of his career so far, made even more special by the atmosphere generated by the 45,000 supporters in the Volksparkstadion.
"This fight was really something special for me even though it was a very rainy night.
"The stadium was amazing and there were fans present from all over the world, the United States, UK, former Soviet republics and Germany," continued Wladimir.
"Being live on TV was also special, but you don't really think about TV because you are focused on the fight, so you feel the atmosphere of the stadium instead.
"You feel the fans, how they scream, how they support, it was definitely something special for me and I will never forget this fight."
