Amy Poehler drew a standing ovation when she initiated an impromptu pageant during the outstanding lead actress in a comedy category at the 2011 Emmy Awards.
At the 2012 Golden Globes, Tina Fey made viewers do a double take, photo-bombing Poehler as the nominees were announced for best actress in a TV comedy or musical.
The "Parks and Recreation" and "30 Rock" stars have been stealing the spotlight at awards shows as presenters and nominees for years. As Suzy Byrne of Yahoo! Entertainment says, "It's almost like they've been practicing for this."
"This" being their gig co-hosting the 70th Golden Globes, to air on NBC on January 13. The news, which broke Monday evening, was met with such excitement from fans, celebrities and the media that many were left wondering, "Seth Mac-who?"
It was announced this month that "Family Guy" creator MacFarlane would host the 85th Academy Awards. It's still considered a great get for the Oscars, which have been fixated on attracting a younger demographic, but all anybody seems to care about is the Fey/Poehler Globes.
Tim Brooks, an author, TV historian and former network executive, told The Hollywood Reporter of MacFarlane's appeal, "Younger viewers probably know the name, but he's not an A star."
It should be noted, however, that MacFarlane's "Ted" recently broke a box office record: The flick about a teddy bear that comes to life has surpassed "The Hangover" as the highest-grossing non-sequel R-rated comedy worldwide.
Meanwhile, Brooks said of the Globes pick, "Tina Fey is a good choice, particularly. She's appealing to younger and older viewers. She's accessible. She's not too trendy but trendy enough."
Poehler has similar range. Before starring on "Parks and Recreation," she appeared alongside Fey on "Saturday Night Live" and in "Mean Girls" and "Baby Mama," in addition to films like "Wet Hot American Summer" and "Blades of Glory."
"They're the first people we approached" for the job, said Aida Takla-O'Reilly, president of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. "I like their style of comedy because they're not trying to be funny, but they're funny. ... It's natural."
Takla-O'Reilly is just one of many dedicated fans. Two women recently bid big bucks at Comedy Central's "Night of Too Many Stars," which benefits autism programs, to hang out with Fey and Poehler for one night.
As some media outlets have pointed out, perhaps just to stir the pot, the foreign press association's decision to book Fey and Poehler could be seen as a slap in the face of the Academy for choosing to announce Oscar nominations on January 10, before the Golden Globes.
However, Takla-O'Reilly says, that's not the case.
"I have the deep belief that we honor the members of the Academy," she said. "In other words, what are the Golden Globes about? What are we honoring? Everyone we're honoring there is a member of the Academy, right? Where's the competition?"
The Fey/Poehler pick was made because "they're obviously very pleasant to look at, and ... they play off of each other beautifully," Takla-O'Reilly added, noting that she enjoyed their skit at the 2011 Emmy Awards.
Even Ricky Gervais, who hosted the Globes in 2010, 2011 and 2012, had kind words for the ladies: "Good luck to Tina Fey and Amy Poehler at the Golden Globes. After failing three years in a row to make E! Channel's Best Dressed list, I decided to hand over the reins."
This is the pair that viewers have been waiting to see, Yahoo! Entertainment's Byrne said. It's not that people are expecting these women to get on stage and reinvent awards shows; it's that they're looking forward to hearing smart jokes.
"They won't sit there and insult people like Ricky Gervais did," Byrne said. "It's like in '30 Rock,' when you watch it, people at home feel like they're in on the joke. ... They'll pull the audience in that way."
Like "Saturday Night Live's" Seth Meyers tweeted, "Poehler and Fey hosting the Golden Globes is excellent news for those who love good times."
