Chelsea's British record-signing Fernando Torres said on Friday he left Liverpool because the Merseyside club are not yet ready to match his ambitions.
The $80 million striker arrived at Liverpool in 2007 but despite scoring 81 goals for the Reds he was unable to fire the team to a major trophy during his three-and-a-half years at Anfield.
"I think they have great ambition and they are doing the right things to get back," the 26-year-old said of his former club at a press conference.
"But it will take time. I didn't have that time. When I was an Atletico Madrid fan growing up, I couldn't understand it when a big player left. But with time I could understand they did the best for themselves, their families and their careers."
The Spanish international is expecting a hostile reception from the away fans when he makes his Chelsea bow against his former team at Stamford Bridge on Sunday, but he hopes they will be able to remember what he did for Liverpool.
"I'm not asking them to understand me but I'm sure over time they will see what I did there. I understand they will be angry and will not understand my decision. Maybe in a few days or weeks I will explain all the reasons.
"Football is like this. From one day to the other, people can love you or hate you."
The former Atletico Madrid captain also revealed he would not celebrate if he was to net a debut goal for the English Premier League champions against his former employers.
"First I have to play, and then I have to score but I have big respect for Liverpool fans so I don't think I will."
Torres became the most expensive Spanish player in the sport's history with his transfer-deadline day move to London, but he insists his large price tag will not be a burden.
"I have been in this situation before when I signed for Liverpool. Big money means big expectation. I'm more than ready for the challenge. I'm excited about a new life and new era."
Meanwhile, Rafael Benitez, the man who brought Torres to Liverpool for $32 million in 2007, has revealed the World Cup winner was valued at $122 million when he was in charge of the club.
"I think last year we were talking about $122 million," Benitez, who recently left European champions Inter Milan, told the BBC.
"People were talking about maybe you receive an offer from another club. They were talking about $122 million."
Benitez, who left Liverpool by mutual consent in June 2010, said his former charge can recapture his top form for Chelsea.
"He was not playing at the same level the last time, but he is still a very good player. It is big money but could (have been) even better."
