Ahh, summer -- a time of sun-drenched picnics where one partakes in three-legged races, whimsical games of croquet and copious pours of wine (the sweet nectar sucked from the recesses of paper bags so as to avoid the long arm of Johnny Law, of course).
And everyone knows that those picnics will fade into foggy, watercolor memories if not obsessively documented.
While a lucky few of us have a trusty photog friend who's always on hand to snap golden-hued pictures of our glorious glory days, others must rely on another, more mechanical companion for our photo-grabbing needs: one's smartphone.
Thankfully, there are scads of photo-taking and sharing apps out there that are sure to get more play this summer than that chick over there in the Lolita-esque crop top. Some are, shall we say, more exhibitionist than others (like the aforementioned chick).
Here's our take on four apps for everyone from rabid shutterbugs to shut-ins.
For storytellers
Are you one of those people who comes into work every Monday with winding tales about driving out into the desert and communing with the cacti about fourth-dimensional time shifts as your friends dance in a daisy chain and the sun sets gorgeously in the background?
Well, now you can document every leg of your spiritual journey with a new app for iPhone and iPod touch called Blurb Mobile, which allows you create stories with photo, video and audio.
You can then share those multimedia tales via Facebook, Twitter and e-mail, so that your work friends can experience your transcendent weekend (or laugh at your cactus convo) right along with you.
For voyeurs
Ever wonder what your neighbors are up to at those swingin' hot tub party BBQs they're always throwing? Well, put down the binoculars and download Color, a photo/video-sharing app for iPhone (and Android, soon) that allows you to see photos and videos from other users in your vicinity.
There's no "friending" on Color -- you're just shown pictures taken by people you hang out with on a regular basis (determined via location technology). We can see the app being a standby at many a festival this summer (it was already featured at the Sweetlife Music Festival in D.C.) -- especially for those concert-goers crammed in the back behind lumbering show ogres.
Still, every pic on Color is public, so if you plan on snapping some sexy shots of you and your honey behind the bandstand, uh, you might want to use a point-and-shoot.
For socialites
If every Facebook notification sends a thrill shooting through your deepest core, iPhone appInstagram will likely bring you to crisis.
Instagram is basically a photo-sharing social network, which allows you to follow other users and comment on and "Favorite" their snaps -- in which everyone is beautiful and '70sesque thanks to a cadre of flattering filters. Yeah, that sunset is rad, but wouldn't it be radder if five people affirmed its beauty by tossing you a "Like"?
Don't have an iPhone? PicPlz is pretty darn similar to Instagram.
For Greta Garbo
Not everyone is big into sharing their lives with the whole block -- gossiping on front stoops as night falls, or finding out the latest neighborhood news from Debra at the diner.
No, some of us would rather divulge our secrets to a particular group of friends -- you know, like your model train enthusiasts society, or your historical reenactment club.
Enter Path, an iPhone photo/video app that only allows you to share snaps with up to 50 friends (within the app and on Facebook), max.
The figure stems from the work of Oxford psychologist Rubin Dunbar, who says that humans can only handle maintaining relationships with up to 150 people.
Because, let's face it, you probably don't have more than 50 pals who would be down to check out snaps from that recreation of the Civil War you're planning on staging down at Fort Sumter this summer.
