(InStyle) -- Drew Barrymore keeps evolving -- from star to producer, and now director.
Drew Barrymore sat down with InStyle for its October issue, on newsstands Thursday.
The 34-year-old actress earned critic's attention with her uncanny portrayal of "Little Edie" Beale in HBO's "Grey Gardens," and her directorial debut, "Whip It," has been hailed as a success well before it rolls into theaters October 2.
But, at her core, she's still the irresistible free spirit we all know and love, as she revealed in the October issue of InStyle.
On being a celebrity ...
Barrymore said that while she loves her life, there are still moments she battles with being a celebrity. "Some days I want nothing more than a brilliant mask so I could look like someone else and go wander the streets and be free," she said. "I'm very peeved that Halloween only comes once a year."
On exercise...
When it comes to transforming her body for a role, as she did for "Grey Gardens," the sunny actress is nothing but dedicated. But in everyday life, Barrymore aims for balance and body acceptance. "I don't have the time or discipline or interest in having a perfect-10 body. I work out, I eat right, but I'll always be a little bit of Jell-O on a pole."
On her relationship with her mom ...
Barrymore admitted her relationship with her mom is a topic she doesn't readily discuss, but the central love story between a girl and her mom in "Whip It" caused Barrymore to reflect on her relationship."I am OK with my dad, but my mom and I have yet to work it all out," she said, adding that she doesn't talk about it because "how do you talk about something you're confused about?"
On girl power ...
From "Charlie's Angels" to her new all-girl roller derby flick, it's no secret that Barrymore champions female friendships. "I like teams -- I like buddies. I don't understand women who are competitive, apart from positive forums like athletics. One person is a powerful thing, but a tribe is unstoppable."
On her first fashion faux pas ...
Barrymore is known for her ever-evolving, ever-eccentric style, but said anything she donned during the "E.T." era can be labeled as a fashion faux pas. Or can it?  "Velour and taffeta, together? Oh, no, no, no. Now I think it's brilliant."
On her first broken heart...
Barrymore recently broke up with The Strokes' drummer Fabrizio Moretti, and called the five-year relationship one of the most important in her life. But when it comes to her first broke heart, Barrymore said it was her "first big boyfriend, Jamie Walters."
Read the full interview with Barrymore in the October issue of InStyle, on newsstands Thursday.
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2009 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
