(CNN)  -- Arjen Robben proved the difference for the second time in four days as Bayern Munich came from behind to beat Freiburg 2-1 to leapfrog Schalke at the top of the Bundesliga.
The brilliant Dutchman put the Bavarian giants into the quarterfinals of the Champions League with his stunning strike against Fiorentina on Tuesday and worked his magic again at the Allianz Arena.
Cedric Makiadi had put struggling Freiburg ahead in the 31st minute, but Robben equalized in the 76th and then converted a 83rd-minute penalty to give Bayern an invaluable three points.
It leaves them two points clear of Schalke, who went temporarily top after a 2-1 lead against Stuttgart.
Makiada's fine strike left Hans Joerg-Butt with no chance and a shock looked on the cards as Louis van Gaal's men appeared jaded after their midweek heroics.
But Robben cropped up to drill home his ninth of the season and his 10th came after Thomas Mueller was fouled to win a penalty.
Earlier on Saturday, Borussia Dortmund moved up to fourth spot with a 4-1 win at Bochum with Argentina star Lucas Barrios scoring twice in three minutes in the second half to seal victory.
Defending champions VfL Wolfsburg picked up their fourth-straight Bundesliga win under caretaker coach Lorenz-Guenther Koestner as they beat Borussia Moenchengladbach 4-0 to move up to eighth.
But basement side Hertha Berlin look certain for the drop after a 2-1 home defeat to fellow strugglers Nuremberg, who followed up their shock win 3-2 at Bayer Leverkusen with another fine victory. It lifts them to 15th.
Third-placed Leverkusen play Hamburg on Sunday in a bid to get their title challenge back on track after Nuremberg ended their record unbeaten run.
In other action around Europe on Saturday, on-loan Robbie Keane scored a hat-trick as Celtic won 3-0 at Kilmarnock to reach the semifinals of the Scottish Cup, their last realistic hope of silverware this season.
In the French League, Lyon struggled after their midweek heroics against Real Madrid and were held to a 1-1 draw at home to local rivals St. Etienne.
A first half goal from Emmanuel Riviere put struggling St. Etienne ahead with Lyon getting an 80th minute equalizer from Argentinian Lisandro Lopez.
With leaders Bordeaux held to a goalless draw at Monaco and fellow challengers Montpellier and Auxerre playing out a 1-1 draw, Lyon's draw was a missed opportunity.
Bordeaux are top with 53 points from 27 games, with a game in hand on Montpellier, who also have 53, with Auxerre just a point behind in third.
Lyon are fourth with 50 points after 28 games.
