A man who posted a video online showing deplorable conditions in his son's barracks at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, said Tuesday that "good things are happening" regarding repairs.
A soldier battles overflowing sewage in the Fort Bragg barracks shortly after coming home from Afghanistan.
"I had been in those barracks three times in the last four years," Edward Frawley told CNN's "American Morning." "I saw the condition and chose to ignore it, but two weeks ago I couldn't. ... I knew I couldn't walk away from it. Somebody had to do something."
Frawley's son, Sgt. Jeff Frawley, is living in the barracks after returning from a 15-month deployment to Afghanistan.
Edward Frawley's 10-minute video shows still photos from throughout the barracks, which include shots of mold and rust in several areas. The video is posted on the popular file-sharing site YouTube and Frawley's business Web site.
Paint, which Frawley says is lead-based, is chipping off. Ceiling tiles are missing. A broken drain pipe allows sewer gas into the building, while another one has tissues stuffed into it in an apparent effort to stop the gas from coming in.
Photos from the communal bathroom show some of the most disturbing images. In one, a soldier stands in a sink to avoid what Frawley says is 3 inches of sewage that covered the floor when toilets overflowed.  Watch the run-down conditions that soldiers have been living in »
At times, "sewage water backs up into the sinks in the lower floors of these barracks," Frawley says in his narration.
Also, "The soldiers have to tell one another who's taking a shower when they turn the sinks on, or the person taking the shower gets scalded with hot water," he says
Edward Frawley said Army Vice Chief of Staff Gen. Dick Cody called him on Monday to say that he shared his anger and that there was no excuse for soldiers living in such conditions.
"He talked to me for 30 minutes, and I believe what he said," Frawley told "American Morning." "He said he wouldn't want his sons coming back and going into these kinds of living conditions, and he just said somebody dropped the ball and they're going to fix it."
Frawley said the Army had promised to have new barracks ready when his son's unit, part of the 82nd Airborne Division, returned from Afghanistan.
"The conditions depicted in Mr. Frawley's video are appalling and unacceptable, and we are addressing the concerns he expressed," Maj. Tom Earnhardt, spokesman for the 82nd Airborne, said in a written statement.
"Our paratroopers are our most valuable resource, and our commitment is to their well-being. Our actions now must represent the best we can do for our soldiers."
He added, "Fundamentally, we acknowledge these conditions are not adequate by today's standards. The images in Mr. Frawley's video are alarming, and our soldiers deserve the best conditions we can provide as an institution."
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina is among government officials who have responded to the video. In a written statement, she called living conditions in the barracks "unacceptable" and said the situation "must be immediately corrected."
A group of congressional staffers toured Fort Bragg on Tuesday.
Earnhardt told CNN the building had been mostly unused during the 15 months Sgt. Frawley and his unit were away. Fort Bragg has a massive construction project under way to create new housing, but it is behind schedule, Earnhardt said.  Watch what the Army is building for soldiers »
He told CNN on Tuesday that there were 40 work orders on the barracks before the video was made, and only seven of them were incomplete when the pictures were taken. Most repairs have since been made, Earnhardt said, and soldiers are housed in the barracks.
Edward Frawley told CNN on Tuesday that the Army has "done a lot in the last two weeks" to fix up the barracks.
"My son is in a tough situation because he wants to make the military his career," he said. "Gen. Cody and the colonels ... guaranteed me this wouldn't come back on him. He had nothing to do with it.
"[Cody] agrees that the pictures are accurate. He doesn't want his men living in conditions like that. ... Who wants their sons living in that?" E-mail to a friend
CNN's Rusty Dornin, Mike Mount and Marylynn Ryan contributed to this report.
