With Congress on its August recess, lawmakers are back in their home districts to meet with their constituents.
Voters are confronting lawmakers with tough questions on health care at town hall meetings across the country.
Across the country, members of Congress are holding town hall meetings where voters are encouraged to voice any questions or concerns about what's happening on Capitol Hill.
Health care reform has dominated the conversation at the meetings. President Obama has called on Congress to pass legislation this year, but lawmakers are hearing from their constituents that they want more specifics on what reform will mean for them.
In addition to taking questions, lawmakers are trying to set the record straight and put an end to the spread of misinformation.
Many town hall meetings are open to anyone. If you're interested in attending one, you're not alone. More than 70 percent of people say they are either very likely or somewhat likely to attend a town hall on health care, according to a recent CNN/Opinion Research Corp. survey.
To find a meeting near you, determine who your senators and representatives are. You can find this information on the House and Senate Web sites.
Some lawmakers have information about their town hall meetings clearly listed on their Web sites. Democratic Rep. Jared Polis of Colorado, for example, has an "events" section detailing the time and location of his upcoming meetings.
Democratic Sen. Russ Feingold of Wisconsin has a section called "listening sessions." It links to a map that shows where the meetings are by county.
Republican Rep. Steve King of Iowa lists his August meetings under the "latest headlines" section of his Web site.
Not all of the lawmakers keep their Web sites up to date, and some don't have their town hall meetings listed online.
If that's the case, you also can call your senator or representative's office to get more information on upcoming events.
It's a good idea to call their office to confirm the time and location, even if the details are online. Meetings are often rescheduled or relocated, and it never hurts to double-check. Find out what time the doors open, and ask whether registration is required.
You can also keep track of your senators and representatives on Twitter. Some lawmakers send messages about their upcoming events. Tweetcongress.org has a list of members of Congress who use Twitter.
