The son of a man who died from intestinal problems says he now wonders whether his father's wife might have poisoned him.
Betty Johnson Neumar is shown at her booking. She is charged with hiring a hit man to kill her husband.
Betty Neumar, 76, was charged by North Carolina authorities last month with one count of solicitation of murder in the July 1986 death of Harold Gentry, one of her five dead spouses since the 1950s.
Since the arrest, authorities have launched an investigation into the deaths of her previous husbands, including John Neumar Sr., her fifth husband.
Neumar's son appeared on "Nancy Grace" on Wednesday along with Jay Almond, a news editor with the Stanly News and Press in North Carolina.
"It wasn't long after my father married her that he started being sick," Neumar said.
He said he learned of his father's death when he read it in a local newspaper. Betty Neumar has not been charged in connection with that death or her other three husbands.
"She has only been charged in one state," her attorney Charles Parnell said. "I want to remind everybody she has only been charged in North Carolina, and obviously, she is presumed to be innocent. There is nothing with the other states because there are no charges at this particular time."
Here is an edited transcript of the show:
Neumar: You know, actually, murder almost never crossed my mind until the Gentry case came up. In fact, we did not know she was married all this time. We just thought that she was married one time and she was a widow lady who married my father.
Well, it wasn't long after my father married her that he started being sick and everything. And he was never sick a day in his life [before then]. And I figured something was wrong because he put -- such a wedge became between our families that shouldn't have existed. We were so close.
And the longer she was married to him, the less we had to do with him and the more time it seemed like he was sick but she wouldn't let us know about it. In fact, when he did die, I read about it in the newspaper and didn't even know he was dead.
And when I went to the funeral home, she already had him cremated.
Grace: Had him cremated?
Neumar: Correct.
Grace: Mr. Neumar, what was the cause of death of your father?
Neumar: Well, it's a complicated thing, and I'm not very good with these technical terms and all. But from what the doctors say, it was some type of stomach and bowel and, you know, intestine problem and everything, which I've been told later by some people that the symptoms that he had could be caused by arsenic poisoning.
Grace: John, when you first met her, didn't you tell me you believed at that time she was a widow, a one-time widow that married your father?
Neumar: Right. That was correct. We were told that her husband just passed away, and my mother had passed away a couple years before that. And we -- you know, we just figured it was a widow and a widower getting married.
Grace: How did she meet your father?
Neumar: A friend of his went up there to where she had a salon to get haircutting. My father, he went to go up there and get his haircut because I think his barber had retired. So he went up there to get his haircut, and that's where he met her.
Grace: And how long after they met did they marry?
Neumar: You know, I'm bad with time frame, but I'd say, I think within a year or something like that [1989].
Grace: Quick courtship.
Neumar: Right. ...
Jay Almond, news editor: The information I have is based on an investigation that the Stanly County Sheriff's Office is running, and information there is that the D.A.'s office and the Stanly County sheriff have gathered evidence from witnesses saying that Betty Neumar solicited to commit murder to her husband, Harold.
Thomas Harold Gentry was shot to death in Norwood home near the back door inside the home. He was found by friends or family members -- I believe friendly members sent there by his employers. He didn't report to work. ... And [they] discover him there dead, and then the investigation there ensues but did not lead to anything enough to press charges against anyone.
Grace: .. Jay, what can you tell me about this woman? What is her background?
Almond: She's a 76-year-old widow ... and she's been married four other times. She initially was inviting to family members, but then sort of became more of a wedge in the family and has gone from there, got colder and -- with previous family members.
