(CNN)Southerners, don't pack your sweaters or heavy coats away just yet. You're probably going to need them for a few days.
A cold front is headed across the country. Enjoy the warmth until it gets where you are, because after that temperatures are going to drop 20 degrees or more before you know it.
And it's not just the South that will have to put up with the cold. Almost a third of the people in the United States are bundling up and looking up to the sky.
Another widespread winter event was shaping up Wednesday afternoon, and it looks as if it will last through Thursday. About 92 million people are under some sort of winter weather warning, watch or advisory.  The wintery weather will eventually extend nearly 2,000 miles, from New Mexico to Massachusetts.
For once, Boston won't be worried about a being a segment leader in snow totals.
Looks likes that will be Kentucky, where some spots could see 6 to 10 inches.
Other areas will have to worry about heavy rain dumped by the slow moving front. Cities in southeast Missouri, western Kentucky, northern Tennessee and western Pennsylvania might get 2 to 4 inches.
Rain will transition to snowfall across many states as colder air pushes in behind the front as it moves to the southeast.
The National Weather Service warned that flooding could be an issue, especially across the lower Ohio Valley and western Mid-Atlantic regions.
CNN affiliate WCHS reported a mudslide in Mingo County resulted in one woman going to the hospital.
There are concerns about ice and the potential for power outages. Arkansas, northern Mississippi and western Tennessee will get the brunt of the icy weather. Some areas could see more than a third of an inch of ice accumulation.
Sleet and ice are expected to make things messy in the Dallas area. The precipitation was causing problems at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, where more than 630 arrivals and departures were canceled or delayed.
Nationwide, more than 3,800 flights were delayed, according to the air traffic tracking website FlightAware. At least 1,750 were canceled. Things will be worse Thursday, at least as cancellations go. More than 2,000 flights with U.S. ties have been scrubbed.
So far this season Boston has seen 105.7 inches -- almost 9 feet -- of snow. That's just 1.9 inches short of the record set nine years ago.
More snow is expected from this system, but it's only likely to be 1 inch Wednesday as the forecast models indicate the majority of snow will stay south of the city.
There is a slim chance of snow on Thursday, followed by days of sunshine and temperatures near 40 by Monday.
CNN meteorologists Dave Hennen and Matt Daniel contributed to this report.
