Barcelona maintained their 100% record in La Liga on Saturday night with a memorable 3-2 win against Sevilla at the Estadio Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan.
An injury-time strike from substitute David Villa preserved Tito Vilanova's side perfect start to the season after Sevilla had built a 2-0 lead.
Winger Piotr Trochowski put the home side in front firing home in the 26th minute before Spanish striker Negredo doubled the lead in the 48th minute -- executing a delightful chip over the onrushing Victor Valdes after being played in by Gary Medel.
A Barca fightback looked unlikely, but was given momentum five minutes later when Cesc Fabregas fired home a left-foot drive.
Sevilla attempts to hang on to their lead weren't helped when Medel was shown a red card by referee Antonio Miguel Mateu Lahoz‎ for an apparent head butt on Fabregas in the 72nd minute.
It proved a pivotal point in the game. Barcelona, aided by substitute's Thiago and Villa, surged forward in search of an equalizer which eventually arrived from the boot of Fabregas who calmly slotted home under Andres Palop after Lionel Messi had played him in.
The Argentine was on hand again for the third, linking with Villa who banged home the winner deep into stoppage time.
Barcelona have 18 points from six matches while Sevilla remain in fifth with 11.
Real Madrid, who have just seven points from their opening five matches, play Deportivo La Coruna on Sunday.
In Saturday's other matches, Valencia beat Real Zaragoza 2-0 thanks to goals in either half from Algerian midfielder Feghouli and Jonathan Viera while Malaga moved up to second with a thumping 4-0 win over Real Betis at the Estadio La Rosaleda.
Joaquin opened the scoring from the penalty spot in the 13th minute before Javier Saviola doubled the lead 15 minutes later.
An Amaya own-goal in the 72nd minute sealed victory but Isco added a fourth two minutes later to round off a resounding win.
In Italy, Juventus consolidated their position at the top of Serie A with a convincing 4-1 win against Roma.
Andrea Pirlo, Arturo Vidal and Alessandro Matri all scored in the first 20 minutes to all but seal victory.
Osvaldo converted a penalty to pull one back for the visitors with 19 minutes remaining, but an injury-time goal from Sebastian Giovinco rounded off a comfortable evening for the league leaders as they edged three points clear of Napoli, who travel to Sampdoria on Sunday.
AC Milan were held to a 1-1 draw against Parma at the Stadio Ennio Tardini.
Stephan El Shaarawy's put the visitors ahead five minutes into the second half only for Daniele Galloppa to equalize 11 minutes later.
