A Georgia man is heading to prison for nearly 10 years for his role in a credit card fraud gang associated with a website called Carder.su that is linked to $50 million in worldwide losses.
Cameron Harrison, aka "Kilobit," 28, of Augusta, Georgia, pleaded guilty to possessing more than 260 compromised credit and debit card numbers, which were recovered from his computer and email accounts following his arrest.
He also admitted, according to the Department of Justice, that the Carder.su organization committed money laundering, narcotics trafficking and computer crimes. He said members tried to avoid detection by communicating through various encrypted forums, such as chat rooms, private messaging systems and virtual private networks.
Harrison was identified when he purchased a counterfeit Georgia driver's license from an undercover special agent through the Carder.su network. During interactions with the undercover special agent, Harrison admitted he had been a vendor of counterfeit identifications in the defunct cyberfraud organization "ShadowCrew."
Fifty-five individuals were charged in four separate indictments in Operation Open Market, run by Homeland Security Investigations and the U.S. Secret Service. To date, 26 individuals have been convicted and the rest are either fugitives or are awaiting trial.
Harrison pleaded guilty to participating in a racketeer influenced corrupt organization, conspiracy to engage in a racketeer influenced and corrupt organization, and trafficking in and production of false identification documents.
"This significant sentence is entirely fitting given that this defendant's actions and those of the larger criminal organization harmed countless innocent Americans and seriously compromised our financial system," said Homeland Security Investigations Executive Associate Director Peter T. Edge. "Criminals like this defendant who believe they can elude detection by hiding behind their computer screens here and overseas are discovering that cyberspace affords no refuge from American justice."
