Every debate seems destined to have a break-out meme. In the first round, it was Big Bird. This time it was Mitt Romney's binder full of women, which instantly became a trending hashtag, Twitter handle, a Facebook group and a Tumblr. (Talking about his effort to hire women for his cabinet, Romney said "And I brought us whole binders full of, of women.")
Other popular, bipartisan bits of mockery covered the far livelier and sometimes cringe-inducing tone of the debate, shout outs to Mr. Gas, Mr. Coal and Mr. Oil, the candidates difficulty saying the name Lorraine and the audience members themselves.
Twitter says there were 7.2 million tweets during the 90-minute debate. The most popular moments were an immigration question, Obama's comment to Romney on China and Romney's response to a question about raising taxes.
Here are some of our favorite tweets of the night. Share yours in the comments.
Elon James White -- I feel like Obama's staff stabbed him in the chest w/ the adrenaline needle from Pulp Fiction. THAT DUDE IS AWAKE! #twib2012 #debates
adamsorensen -- Is there anything more awkward than putting two guys on stools 10 feet apart on a huge stage and asking them to look natural for 90 minutes?
Andy Borowitz -- Romney: "Jeremy, if you are illegal, you can get a job working at my house." #debate
Brian Braiker -- i hope the guy with a mustache has a spot in line. and i hope he stands up to say "Mr President, I mustache you a question."
Dane Cook -- Dear everyone in the town hall #debate. Stop reading your questions off your cards like its a hostage note.
Chase Mitchell ‏-- We're about three seconds away from the knife fight from "Beat It."#debates
dansinker -- I FEEL REALLY UNCOMFORTABLE RIGHT NOW.
Samantha Bee -- When Obama is talking, Romney makes the same face my Catholic grandmother would make at a Wiccan wedding. #debate
Matt Roller -- Before you accuse Romney of not caring about the unemployed, keep in mind he's been trying to get a new job for a YEAR. #debate
ditzkoff -- Mitt Romney read very different Mr. Men books than I did. #mrcoal #mrgas #mroil
pourmecoffee ‏-- Romney: I am pro-choice, but only for deporting yourself.
Jordan Zakarin -- I agree with Romney that we really don't need another 'Fast and the Furious' sequel. Enough, Vin Diesel. Bipartisan consensus!
Patton Oswalt -- "Binders Full of Women" is my favorite Motley Crue album. #debate
Adam Sternbergh -- "Binders full of women" is what they find in a serial killer's apartment.
Steve Agee -- Fonzie had binders full of women too. #debate #littleblackbook
Elise Foley -- Oh god, I just realized that now people will dress as binders for Halloween.
Bilge Ebiri -- Obama: "I passed a law allowing women to get equal pay." Romney: "I hired women once." #debate
Josh Tyrangiel -- Romney just locked up the Welsh illegal vote.
ThePresObama [Not the real Obama] -- Romney is very tough on China. He will only eat off of the most rare and expensive sets available. #debate2012
Clay Johnson -- Watching the debates to figure out who to vote for is like watching the World Series to figure out which team to root for.
Dave Weigel -- This panel of undecided voters from Daily Kos threads is asking some good questions.
Pat Healy ‏-- Fred Armisen was great tonight as every audience member.#Debate
David Weinberger -- Well, there goes the gangbanger vote! Nice job, Mr. President! #debate
Feministing -- Guns don't kill people. Single mothers kill people.
Andy Borowitz -- It's as if the Romney from the first debate is tied up in a Scooby-Doo warehouse somewhere. #debate
Team Coco -- You know who won this #debate? The shadowy townhall industry.
Jesse Tyler Ferguson -- That debate was better than a real housewives reunion.
CNN's Brandon Griggs contributed to this story.
