August 20, 2010
Swedish prosecutors issue an arrest warrant for Julian Assange amid allegations of rape and molestation from two female Wikileaks volunteers earlier that month. The next day, the prosecutor's office announces it is rescinding the arrest warrant while the rape charge is unfounded. The molestation allegation remains.
August 31, 2010
Assange is questioned by Stockholm police and formally told of the charges against him, all of which he denies as a smear campaign. Swedish prosecutors announce the next day that they are reopening the rape case against him, while the molestation charge will be upgraded to sexual coercion and sexual molestation.
November 18, 2010
Swedish prosecutors announce the courts have approved their request to issue arrest warrants to question Assange, who is now in London. On November 20, the Stockholm Criminal Court issues an international arrest warrant for Assange, stating he is suspected of several counts of rape, sexual molestation and illegal use of force. Interpol later issues a "red notice" upon Sweden's request.
December 8, 2010
Assange turns himself in to London police. He is remanded in custody after an extradition hearing finds him a flight risk. On December 16, the court finalizes its decision to grant him conditional bail. Celebrity supporters rally around him, paying his £240,000 ($376,000) bail and providing a mansion for his house arrest.
February 7- 24, 2011
Assange attends extradition hearings at London's Belmarsh Magistrate's Court, which ultimately rules in support of his extradition to Sweden. Assange then launches an appeal at the High Court.
November 2, 2011
After a series of hearings in July, the British High Court defers its decision until November, ultimately ruling against Assange's appeal. Assange has two weeks to seek the court's permission to appeal to the Supreme Court.
December 5, 2011
The High Court announces that Assange will be allowed to appeal its decision on the legal technicality of whether the Swedish public prosecutor is a judicial authority, a status needed to sign an arrest warrant. The case now moves to the Supreme Court, Britain's highest judicial authority.
May 30, 2012
The Supreme Court denies Assange's appeal against his extradition to Sweden, but in an unusual move, grants him permission to file an appeal. On June 14, it dismisses his application to reopen his appeal.
June 19, 2012
Assange flees to Ecuador's embassy in London to request political asylum. London police say he is subject to arrest for breaking the terms of his bail by seeking asylum.
August 15, 2012
Ecuador's foreign minister, Ricardo Patino, says his government will announce its decision on Assange's asylum request the next day. He says Ecuador received written notice from British authorities that they would "assault" the country's embassy in London if Assange was not handed over.
August 16, 2012
Ecuador announces it has granted asylum to Assange because it believes he will be politically persecuted if extradited. The UK says it is disappointed by the decision and will not grant safe passage out of the country to Assange, who has now been holed up inside Ecuador's embassy in London for nearly two months.
