There were triumph and tears, joy and sorrow at the World Cup final between Argentina and Germany. But regardless of whichever team you were supporting, there were some moments Sunday that were just bizarre. Here are our top 5:
1. Good girl gone bad: Rihanna was so excited about Germany's win, she decided to give the crowd a celebratory flash. But let's not get too excited, fellas: This was not the topless kind.
The pop singer has been an avid fan of the World Cup, and her tweeted commentary throughout the tournament rivaled ESPN's. Highlights include a picture of her scantily clad with the message: "For my German boys." The team must have appreciated the gesture: They later brought the trophy to her.
2. Football diplomacy: World leaders take a little time off for sports, too. Cameras caught Russian President Vladimir Putin in deep conversation with German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the Maracana Stadium in Brazil. Merkel was supporting the home team, which went on to beat Argentina 1-0 to win the World Cup. Putin was on a mission, too: Russia hosts the next World Cup in 2018.
3. And the winner of the Selfie World Cup is ... : Lukas Podolski. The German team forward took some epic selfies after the game. And he didn't even play Sunday!
If the first one wasn't awesome enough, there's a second. And a third. Way to go, dude!
4. Because your kiss is on my list: God bless LeBron James -- and his cell phone. King James captured footage of a streaker who rushed the field, belly out and all, and tried to kiss Germany's Benedikt Howedes. Let's just say it was a case of unrequited love. "We're going streaking! Everyone's doing it. Man that was hilarious," James posted under the video on Instagram.
The man, it turns out, is Russian prankster and viral video sensation Vitaly Zdorovetskiy -- and he kind of hinted at his second-half shenanigan on Twitter hours before the game. The message scrawled across his torso? "Natural Born Prankster."
5. Silver lining in Argentina's loss: Imagine if this guy -- and his rat tail -- had scored a winning goal. Argentina's Rodrigo Palacio came into the game toward the end and provided a hairy distraction during a long wait for a goal -- long enough for "Rat tail" and #rattail to trend briefly.
Four key takeaways
A love affair with soccer, in pictures
