Europe's Ryder Cup selections endured largely disappointing finishes to the final build-up tournament before the biennial clash gets underway later this week as Dutchman Joost Luiten won the Wales Open Sunday.
Luiten overcame a poor start to his round at Celtic Manor, venue for the 2010 Ryder Cup, to finish on 14-under after a level par 71.
It was his fourth victory on the European Tour, but his late season form came too late to earn him a spot in Paul McGinley's team to face the United States at Gleneagles next Friday.
Luiten had to battle to salvage a par-five on the 18th to hold off England's Tommy Fleetwood and Ireland's Shane Lowry at Celtic Manor.
Fleetwood finished with a six-under burst for the last five holes and Lowry also birdied the 18th to set the target for Luiten.
"It was tough, it was hard work down the last," said Luiten
Four members of McGinley's 12-strong team were in action in Wales with Ryder Cup debutant Jamie Donaldson the best placed.
He birdied the last for a 67 to finish on 12-under and a tie for fourth alongside Belgian Nicolas Colsaerts, England's Eddie Pepperell, Scotland's Marc Warren and Edoardo Molinari of Italy.
But Denmark's Thomas Bjorn and Lee Westwood of England were distinctly out of sorts in their final tune ups.
Veteran Bjorn shot a 74 to finish one over par and a rusty Westwood struggled to a 76 for two over.
He will be making his ninth appearance later this week and was unfazed by his poor display.
"I hit a few good shots (this week), not so good today, but I probably had one eye on next week. I don't think the concentration and the focus was there," he told the European Tour website.
"The Ryder Cup is very special, I am looking forward to getting there tonight and preparing for Friday when it starts."
At least Westwood and Bjorn made the cut. Stephen Gallacher, making his debut as one of McGinley's picks, failed to make the weekend.
Meanwhile, world number one Rory McIlroy said he was looking forward to capping his remarkable year with a third Ryder Cup triumph.
"Personally for me it would just be the icing on the cake of what's already a fantastic year," he told Sky Sports.
"It's way better to win as part of a team. The best experiences in my golf career have been the Ryder Cup and to be able to celebrate with all these guys. It's very special."
McIlroy famously nearly missed his tee time ahead of the final day singles match at Medinah in 2012, but made it with minutes to spare to beat Keegan Bradley as Europe completed a remarkable comeback to retain the trophy.
