February 11, 2014
CNN Student News covers stories from around the world, including devastating floods in Britain, construction and conservation concerns in Costa Rica, and Olympic pride sweeping across Russia. We also examine contrasting views on whether a football player's announcement concerning his sexuality will impact his prospects in the NFL draft.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What perspectives would you include in a report about construction that could benefit a population but also have an environmental impact?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  flood defenses
2.  biodiversity
3.  patriotism
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1.  How has excessive rainfall caused a natural disaster in Somerset, England?  How are people there addressing the flooding?
2.  What major construction project is underway deep in the forests of Costa Rica?  What is the purpose of this project?  Why are some concerned about its impact on the surrounding countryside? Which animals are they most concerned about?  What is being done to protect these animals and their habitats?
3.  According to the video, how are many Russians reacting to their country's hosting of the Winter Olympics?  In what way is their country on "the international stage"?
4.  Who is Michael Sam?  What announcement did he recently make?  What are some executives and coaches saying about the announcement and its potential impact on his draft status?
Discussion Questions:
1.  What motivates someone who lives outside a disaster zone to help victims of a disaster?  How do you think help from people outside a community might impact those living in a disaster zone?  What psychological impact might this kind of help have?
2.  Do you think that biodiversity should be considered when constructing a project that would benefit human quality of life?  Explain.
3.  What are some ways in which countries display their national pride?  What kinds of things give others a glimpse into a country's culture?  Have you ever visited another country or attended an international event, like the Olympics?  If so, what did the experience teach you about the place you visited and the people you met?
4.  Do you think that Michael Sam's announcement will have an impact on his career?  Explain.  If you were an NFL executive, would this announcement influence your decision to draft or not to draft Sam for your team?  Discuss.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
