While Rafael Nadal climbed into the crowd to hug his friends and family after clinching a record seventh French Open title on Monday, Novak Djokovic sat disconsolate at the side of the court.
The world No. 1's bid to become the first man since 1969 to hold all four grand slams had come to a disappointing end -- with a double-fault.
One of the most anticipated finals in recent tennis history was largely sabotaged by wet weather, which meant the match was held over from Sunday for only the second time.
Second-ranked Nadal had been quickest out of the blocks after the resumption of play, breaking Djokovic's serve immediately, and even another downpour could not stop the Spaniard sealing a 6-4 6-3 2-6 7-5 victory as he won six of the nine games played.
It took the 26-year-old past Bjorn Borg's mark of six successes at the clay-court major and extended his winning record at the tournament to 52-1.
He has now joined the legendary Swede on 11 grand slam titles overall, along with Australian Rod Laver -- who was the last man to hold all four major titles at one time.
They trail another Australian, Roy Emerson, on 12, American Pete Sampras on 14 and Roger Federer -- beaten by Djokovic in Friday's semifinals -- on 16.
"It's an honor but the most important thing is this tournament. It's unforgettable, one of the most special moments in my career," Nadal said.
"It was a privilege to play against one of the best players in the world."
Djokovic, who lost in the semifinals last year, was left on five grand slams. He has won the Australian Open three times, including a record-breaking near six-hour final against Nadal in January, plus last year's Wimbledon and U.S. Open tournaments.
"I feel really privileged to be in this position, being in the final at Roland Garros for the first time," the 25-year-old said.
"The playing conditions were not good. But it's not anybody's fault, and it's not the reason why I lost today.
"He is definitely the best player in history on this surface, and results are showing that he is one of the best players that ever played this game, and he is only 26 years old. Hopefully we can have many more battles."
The tennis season now moves onto grass ahead of the next grand slam, Wimbledon, which starts in London on June 25. The Olympic tournament will also be held in the British capital.
