December 12, 2014
From the Sierra Nevada mountains to the shores of Central America, today's show takes you over land and sea. We're reporting on the monster storm soaking parts of the West Coast, the proposed canal that could change the landscape of Nicaragua, and the benefits and limitations of a popular power source. Plug in, log on, and power up with Friday's edition of CNN Student News.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click this space for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. The U.S. temporarily delayed its plans to reduce troop numbers in what Middle Eastern country?
2. Saccharin, sucralose and aspartame are all artificial examples of what?
3. From October to November, the U.S. unemployment rate remained at what percentage?
4. What herbivore, native to Africa and Asia, has been reduced to endangered status by poachers seeking its horns?
5. What inventor of the light bulb and record player was once told he was too stupid to learn anything?
6. Name the world's largest museum complex, which began utilizing 3D imaging to scan detailed artifacts.
7. New York and the New England region of the U.S. were hit by what type of wet and windy storm this week?
8. If the president and vice president can no longer serve, what position in the U.S. government is next in line for the presidency?
9. What U.S. mountain range has seen hurricane-force wind gusts and blizzard warnings as a result of a storm hitting the West Coast?
10. Lawmakers and investors are planning to build a new and controversial canal through what Central American nation?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
