In Roseanne Barr's third book, "Roseannearchy: Dispatches from the Nut Farm," the comedian candidly discusses everything from her half-Jewish, half-Mormon upbringing in Salt Lake City, to the sitcom that made her world famous, to ex-husbands and owning her very own macadamia nut farm in Hawaii.
"Roseannearchy" certainly won't leave readers wondering how Barr, 58, really feels about the state of the world. "My writing just comes out, and then I try to edit it and try to goose it up or down," she told CNN.   When the subject turned to politics, Barr said, "I'm running for president of the United States and prime minister of Israel -- that's kind of a twofer -- on the Solutions Party and the Green Tea Party seeking solutions. And I would advise President Obama, if asked, to do the same, look for solutions."
Some fans might be surprised to learn that Barr's first husband, Bill Pentland, wrote the foreword to "Roseannearchy." Pentland was the inspiration for Dan Conner in the sitcom "Roseanne," which ran from 1988 to 1997.   "He was always a great writer, and that was our bond when we first met, we were both writers," Barr said. "We had three kids together, and they were the blueprint for Darlene, Becky and D.J. So I thought it was apt [to have him write the introduction], and I think he did a great job."
In his foreword, Barr's ex-husband recounts the years the couple spent (pre-kids, pre-fame) living in the mountains of Colorado in the 1970s. (Read: No running water, just a pump.)
"We were big hippies and roughing it," Barr said.
Barr also said she believes that the legacy of "Roseanne," which lives on in daily reruns in the U.S. on TV Land and Oxygen, lies in the people who watched it and continue to do so to this day. "That's kind of cool," she said. "The fact that they found it and watched it is the best."
Barr keeps in touch with most of her "Roseanne" cast mates and is delighted that the show -- which tackled hot-button issues that other shows wouldn't touch in its day -- remains relevant. "A lot of writers were made on the 'Roseanne' show," Barr said. "A lot of good ideas were mined over and over and over from that show."
Barr also said she was flattered that "Roseanne" was spoofed on "Family Guy," although she said didn't get to see the episode "because I never know when anything is on, so someone told me about it, but 'Family Guy' is a good show."
Barr also discussed how the popular CBS sitcom "The Big Bang Theory" has become a "Roseanne" reunion of sorts. "The Big Bang Theory" stars Johnny Galecki as Leonard; Galecki played Darlene's longtime boyfriend David on "Roseanne." Sara Gilbert, who played Darlene, had a recurring guest role on "The Big Bang Theory." Laurie Metcalf, who portrayed Jackie on "Roseanne," guest-starred as Sheldon's mother on "The Big Bang Theory."   Barr hinted at an interest in partaking in an episode when she said, "it's kind of weird that they don't ask me." Perhaps someone should start a Facebook group?
As for upcoming projects, Barr said, "I just want to continue to write."
