Fantasia Barrino did not deny an alleged relationship with a married man, but a statement from her manager said the singer-actress did not wreck his marriage.
A North Carolina woman, in a child custody case filing, charged that Barrino carried on a year-long affair with her husband, Antwaun Cook, who is the father of her two young children.
Paula Cook alleged her husband and the "American Idol" winner "have at times recorded their illicit sexual activity," although her lawyer stopped short of explaining whether a sex video existed.
The woman is seeking full custody of her sons, 2 and 6, along with child support, alimony, the family home and a car. The suit was filed last week in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
"Fantasia is certain that she is not responsible for the deterioration of the Cook's marriage," manager Brian Dickens said in a statement to CNN Monday.
Barrino has said in past interviews that she was friends with a married man, but she has consistently denied there was a sexual relationship.
Photos of Barrino and Cook together, including on a personal watercraft and also walking hand-in-hand, have circulated on the internet for months.
Paula Cook's petition said her husband "frequents bars, restaurants, nightclubs and the like" with Barrino.
She accused her husband of enjoying "the lavish benefits associated with the high-profile relationship."
"Ms. Barrino flew defendant/husband to places such as Atlanta, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, and Barbados" where he "attended celebrity parties, concerts, photo shoots and award shows with Ms. Barrino."
The petition, which said the couple separated in June, described a phone conversation in July in which Barrino allegedly told the wife: "He don't want you. ... Maybe the next time that you get a husband, you'll know how to keep him. ... That's why he is here with me."
While Barrino is not directly involved in the current legal case, North Carolina is one of only a few states that allow a spouse to sue a third party who interferes with a marriage for alienation of affection.
"Fantasia will weather this storm with the dignity and grace that she has exemplified throughout a life in which she has repeatedly overcome obstacles and challenges," Barrino's manager said.
The High Point, North Carolina, native has enjoyed a successful recording and acting career since winning "American Idol's" third season.
