Actress Zsa Zsa Gabor underwent successful hip replacement surgery Monday morning to repair damage suffered when she fell out of her bed Saturday night, her spokesman said.
"We're all very relieved," publicist John Blanchette said.
Francesca Hilton, Gabor's daughter, was with her mother as she recovered from the surgery at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center.
"She is conscious and groggy and knows that the surgery is over," Hilton said. "She is strong and hopefully will recover and heal."
Gabor, 93, is likely to remain hospitalized at least four more days, Blanchette said.
The surgery lasted more than three hours, he said. "Her doctors are happy with the results."
Gabor was sitting in bed and fell reaching to answer the phone, her husband, Prince Frederic von Anhalt, said. She was watching the television game show "Jeopardy," which is "a must-see show" for the actress, he said.
Gabor has been frail and "pretty much confined to a wheelchair" since a 2002 car accident, according to Blanchette. The crash occurred when the car in which she was riding with her hairdresser slammed into a light pole on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles.
Her husband, who has been caring for her at the couple's Bel Air, California, home, is also a dark-horse candidate for governor of California.
"I will put it in a closet because my wife comes first," Von Anhalt said.
Von Anhalt, 65, is Gabor's eighth husband, but after 24 years of marriage he is her longest-lasting relationship.
"She has an active mind. She's very bright. She's funny. She always makes me laugh whenever I talk to her," Blanchette said. "Her body's failing her."
The glamorous Hungarian-born actress, the second of the three celebrated Gabor sisters, is most famous for her eight marriages. Among her husbands were hotel millionaire Conrad Hilton and Oscar-winning actor George Sanders.
Her more prominent films include John Huston's 1952 Toulouse-Lautrec biopic, "Moulin Rouge;" "The Story of Three Loves," 1953; "The Girl in the Kremlin," 1957; and Orson Welles' classic "Touch of Evil," 1958.
In 1989, Gabor was sentenced to 72 hours in jail for slapping a Beverly Hills police officer after a traffic stop. She also had to perform community service at a battered women's shelter.
The other Gabor sisters were Magda, the oldest, who died in 1997 five days shy of 83, and Eva, the youngest, who died in 1995 at 76.
Magda, an occasional stage actress, also was married to George Sanders at one time.
Eva is probably best remembered for her role as a socialite turned farmer's wife on the 1960s TV sitcom "Green Acres."
