Rolling Stones frontman Mick Jagger played down his status as an iconic rock 'n' roller during an interview to be broadcast Tuesday night, crediting his band's longevity to luck, hard work and loyal fans.
"You know, you always need a lot of luck," Jagger told CNN's "Larry King Live." "And I think [the Stones] were in the right place at the right time. And ... when we work, we work very hard."
The Stones have been rocking for nearly 50 years, and even though its members are now at an age when most people have retired, the band shows no signs of slowing down.
Tuesday marked the re-release of one of the Stones' most famous albums, "Exile on Main Street." The new album features previously unreleased tracks culled from recording sessions in a basement in France nearly 40 years ago. The album's release coincides with a documentary, "Stones in Exile," out on DVD next month.
"Exile" is "a special album for me," said Jagger.
"It's one of the real good ones," he told King. "And it's a real favorite of people. And we do play a lot on stage of this album. So, you know, I rank it right up there."
He said Stones fans are one reason the band is able to continue doing world tours.
"What really keeps it going is the audience, because ... you feed from the audience and their enthusiasm," Jagger said. "And if you have an enthusiastic audience, you feel that ... you could give more, you know?"
Jagger said he and his bandmates learned how to play to an audience when they first started playing small clubs in England and developed an early following.
"We had a super enthusiastic club audience," he said. "And that audience really taught us how to behave, how to have, you know, repartee with the audience and so on. Even from those early days, it's not really that different to the exchange that you get with a big audience."
And he also gave credit to the Beatles, calling them both "rivals" and "trailblazers."
"They were both rivals and they were also ... showing the way," he said.
"They were big international stars. ... Most English people have never really been stars outside of England. ... And the Beatles kind of showed that you could be international."
Jagger told King he doesn't know when the band will tour again, but promised when it does, it will be an international tour.
"It's always worldwide," he said.
