It's been three years since Tommy Haas has reached an ATP Tour final, and the former world No. 2's wait for a 13th career title was extended on Saturday.
The 34-year-old rolled back the years on home soil this week when he stunned top seed Jo Wilfried-Tsonga at the Munich Open, but his tournament has now ended with a straight-sets defeat by 2010 runner-up Marin Cilic in the semifinals.
Haas, who has overcome two career-threatening injuries in the past decade, was runner-up in the clay event in 2000 and had been on course to reach his first final since winning another German tournament, the Halle grass-court championship in 2009.
But Croatian Cilic triumphed 6-3 6-4 as he won 89% of his service points to set up a clash with Germany's Philipp Kohlschreiber on Sunday.
"It was my best match of the week," the 23-year-old third seed told the ATP website after beating a player who has reached four grand slam semifinals but needed a wild-card to enter this week.
"I played and served extremely well. I believe he didn't reach deuce on my serve. Tommy played really well this week and I went into the match with thoughts of that. It made good preparation for everything."
Haas had also defeated former Australian Open finalist Marco Baghdatis on his way to the last four, but the world No. 134 lost in 75 minutes to a man seeking to win an ATP Tour title for the fourth successive year, owning six overall.
Kohlschreiber, the 2007 Munich champion, will also be seeking his seventh title after beating Spanish second seed Feliciano Lopez in the second semifinal.
The 28-year-old, who has also been a winner and runner-up at Halle, won 6-2 6-7 (4-7) 6-4.
In Portugal, Kaia Kanepi won her second WTA Tour title by beating Spain's Carla Suarez Navarro 3-6 7-6 (8-6) 6-4 in Saturday's final of the Estoril Open.
The Estonian sixth seed had a six-week injury layoff after her maiden victory in Brisbane in January, but has battled back after losing first-round matches in Miami and Indian Wells.
In the men's event, defending champion Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina will play French second seed Richard Gasquet in Sunday's final.
In Belgrade, Italian second seed Andreas Seppi will take on France's Benoit Paire in Sunday's final of the Serbia Open.
Seppi beat Argentine fourth seed David Nalbandian, while in another three-set match Paire upset Spaniard Pablo Andujar -- who was top seed in the absence of defending champion Novak Djokovic, who is mourning the recent death of his grandfather.
