It's been a long 100 days for Marc Fucarile, but he finally got to go home Wednesday.
Fucarile is the last Boston Marathon bombing victim to be released from a hospital. He was discharged Wednesday morning from Boston's Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital.
"It's definitely seemed like a lot longer than 100 days," Fucarile told reporters. He still faces additional surgeries, numerous follow-up appointments and hours of physical therapy daily.
The 34-year-old from the Boston suburb of Stoneham, Massachusetts, was one of more than 260 people who were wounded by two bombs near the marathon finish line on April 15. One of his legs was amputated, and he also had shrapnel lodged in his body.
He was surrounded by relatives and friends, his young son and his fiancee as he walked out of the hospital on crutches, looking forward to a home-cooked meal and a night with family.
"At times I've just wanted to check out, because I know how tough and hard it is for her or for him, not having me there," Fucarile said. "You know, when he leaves, when he comes and visits and he's crying about wanting me to come home, it's been hard. It's been very hard."
He underwent multiple surgeries, staying 45 days at Massachusetts General Hospital before transferring to Spaulding -- a post-operation and rehabilitation facility -- for 55 days.
In an earlier interview at Spaulding, Fucarile told CNN that in the frantic minutes after the attack, Boston police took him to a hospital in a detainee van because no ambulance was immediately available.
The bombings killed three people. One of two people accused of carrying out the attack, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, pleaded not guilty to federal charges and is awaiting trial. The other suspect, his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was killed during a gun battle with police.
Fucarile admitted being angry about the attacks, but added, "I'm more mad at what they did to the families that they took their children from.
"I'm more mad at that than at what happened to me," he said. "I'm here. I'm lucky to be alive." As for the bombers, "They'll get theirs."
CNN's Roni Selig and Stephanie Gallman contributed to this report.
