(CNN Student News) -- June 3, 2014
First up this Tuesday: More controversy surfaces concerning a prisoner exchange. We'll tell you what some U.S. servicemen are saying and how the White House is responding. Also covered: the debate over an executive order concerning carbon emissions. And we commemorate 100 years of commercial flight with a report on the soaring changes that have occurred throughout the aviation industry.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What is the difference between primary and secondary sources? What examples can you give of each?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. executive order
2. parliamentary monarchy
3. entrepreneurial
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Who is Bowe Bergdahl? What do some of his fellow soldiers say about his disappearance? Why are some criticizing the terms of Bergdahl's release? How has the White House responded to these criticisms?
2. What is an executive order? What executive order did President Obama announce yesterday regarding power plants? According to many scientists, what impact do carbon emissions have on the environment? Why are some critical of this order?
3. Who is Juan Carlos I of Spain? Why is he abdicating the throne? Who is expected to become king? What kind of government does Spain have? According to the video: What role did Juan Carlos play in the king's role in the government? How has Juan Carlos been perceived by his people?
4. What "first" in travel took place across Tampa Bay, Florida, in 1914? Who was the first paying passenger? How much did he pay for the flight? How many people currently fly each day? According to the report: How has the entrepreneurial spirit played a role in the growth of aviation? What are some problems that have plagued some major airlines? How have the airlines seen in the video responded to the risks and rewards of the commercial flying business?
5. How did Morgan Assel ask Juwaan Espinal to prom? Whose help did she enlist? How did Juwaan respond? Why did Robert Griffin III say he took time to do this?
Discussion Questions:
1. Do you have any questions about the release of Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl? Explain. If you have questions, what sources might you consult to get answers?
2. Why do you think that the president has the power to execute certain policies via an executive order? How might the principle of checks and balances factor into a potential response?
3. What is meant by the term "entrepreneurial"? What are some of the risks and rewards in any entrepreneurial undertaking? What are some things that entrepreneurs might do to help the rewards of their businesses outweigh the risks?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
