The net in Bangladesh cricket's corruption scandal widened Tuesday as the ICC announced that seven people had been charged with match-fixing.
Two more individuals have been accused of failing to report corrupt approaches.
The joint action by the International Cricket Council and the Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) follows a tearful confession by former national captain Mohammad Ashraful that he was involved in match fixing.
Ashraful, who captained his country between 2007 and 2009, played for Dhaka Gladiators in the Bangledesh Premier League (BPL), a Twenty20 tournament.
In a joint statement, the ICC and BCB said the latest charges relate to an "alleged conspiracy within the Dhaka Gladiators franchise to engage in match-fixing and spot-fixing activity during matches in the BPL 2013."
The identity of the individuals will not be revealed into the conclusion of the disciplinary proceedings against them, they said.
"The continuing fight against corruption in cricket is not only the responsibility of the authorities like the ICC and the BCB, but it is increasingly the personal responsibility also of all players and support personnel," said ICC chief executive David Richardson.
"They must work closely with the authorities and comply with their reporting responsibilities at all times, so that the integrity of the sport can be protected for the greater good."
BCB president Nazmul Hassan backed up the tough line stance being adopted.
"The BCB is committed to doing everything possible to defend it from the very small group of people who are willing to compromise the values of the overwhelming majority for personal greed and, in so doing, bring disgrace upon themselves and their associates, as well as tarnishing the image of the game," he said.
The action was taken after an investigation by the ICC anti-corruption unit. The individuals charged have 14 days in which to appeal or accept the allegations against them.
It is the latest scandal to hit the image of cricket in the sub-continent.
The most high profile involves Shanthakumaran Sreesanth, who has played 27 Tests for India.
Fast bowler Sreesanth and 38 others have been charged by Delhi police in connection with spot-fixing in the Indian Premier League, the world's biggest Twenty20 tournament.
Last year the BCB banned ex-Bangladesh international Shariful Haque after an inquiry fund his guilty of spot-fixing during the first edition of the BPL.
Spot-fixing first entered the cricket vocabulary back in 2010 when three Pakistan Test players, captain Salman Butt and bowlers Mohammad Amir and Mohammad Asif were caught in a sting organized by an English newspaper.
They were found to have conspired to bowl non valid 'no-balls' at certain times during the Test series against England.
The trio served jail sentences in Britain for the corruption offenses and were given lengthy bans by the ICC.
