World No. 2 Novak Djokovic suffered a shock defeat by sixth seed Mikhail Youzhny in the semifinals of the World Tennis Tournament in Rotterdam on Saturday.
The Serbian, who had not played since Thursday after being handed a walkover in his quarterfinal, lost 7-6 (7-5) 7-6 (8-6) to the Russian despite saving two match-points.
Youzhny, who won the Dutch indoor tournament in 2007, will play second seed Robin Soderling in Sunday's final after the world No. 8 edged out sixth-ranked Nikolay Davydenko 7-6 (7-3) 6-4.
Youzhny will have the chance to avenge his compatriot's defeat as he seeks to improve his 1-1 career record against Soderling.
The signs are good for the world No. 20, who also defeated Djokovic in the semifinals three years ago.
The Muscovite will bid to win his sixth ATP Tour title, having won one in each of the past three seasons.
Soderling has bounced back from a poor start to the season that saw the Swede lose in the first round of his first two tournaments in 2010, including the Australian Open.
"This is a really tough tournament and it's not easy to reach the final here," last year's French Open finalist told the ATP Web site.
"I'm playing better with every match, so I'm very happy. I've had a lot of tough matches with Nikolay in the past few years. He's one of the best players in the world, so it means I am playing great tennis to beat him. My confidence is up and I'm looking forward to the final."
Meanwhile, second seed Fernando Verdasco reached the final of the SAP Open in San Jose in the United States after beating Uzbekistan's Denis Istomin on Saturday.
The Spaniard won 6-3 2-6 6-4 to set up a clash with the top seed Andy Roddick who overcame a first set loss and two tiebreakers to defeat fellow American Sam Querrey 2-6, 7-6 (5), 7-6 (4).
Top seed Elena Dementieva will play Lucie Safarova in Sunday's Paris Indoor Open final on the women's WTA Tour circuit.
Russian world No. 7 Dementieva came from behind to beat young American Melanie Oudin 4-6 6-3 6-3 in the semifinals of the French hardcourt event, where she lost in the final last year to Amelie Mauresmo.
Unseeded Czech Safarova upset Italy's Flavia Pennetta, the second-ranked player in the field, as she also rallied from a set down to win 4-6 6-3 6-4.
World No. 46 Safarova lost to Nadia Petrova in the 2007 final.
In Thailand, top seed Vera Zvonareva will seek home hope Tamarine Tanasugarn from winning her first Pattaya Open title on Sunday.
The Russian is on course to defend her title following a 6-2 4-6 6-3 victory against fourth seed Yaroslava Shvedova of Kazakhstan, reaching her 21st career title.
The 32-year-old Tanasugarn will have her 10th tilt at a WTA title after crushing Shvedova's compatriot Sesil Karatantcheva, ranked 185th in the world, 6-2 6-0 in the other semifinal on Saturday.
