The pressure on Inter boss Rafa Benitez intensified on Sunday as his team crashed to a 2-1 defeat to Chievo in Serie A.
To compound the issue, star striker Samuel Eto'o looks likely to receive a retrospective ban after television cameras showed him head-butting opponent Bostjan Cesar in the chest late in the first half.
The referee and officials missed the incident, which was reminiscent of Zinedine Zidane's head-butt on Marco Materazzi in the 2006 World Cup final in Germany, but if reported the Cameroon international is likely to be sidelined for several matches.
Chievo took the lead shortly before the Eto'o incident, when Sergio Pellissier headed home after 29 minutes.
And the home side made sure of victory eight minutes from time when substitute Davide Moscardelli tucked away a cross from Luca Rigoni.
Eto'o scored a brilliant individual goal in injury time but it was too little, too late.
"It's clear that after a defeat no-one is happy, the only thing I can say is that we worked very hard today and our reaction in the second half on a terrible pitch showed great character," Benitez said, AFP reported.
The result means his team is now in sixth place, nine points adrift of leaders and city rivals AC Milan.
Swede sends Milan clear
Juventus moved ahead of Inter into fifth place after a 2-0 win at mid-table Genoa.
Juve were gifted the lead when Claudio Marchisio's deflected shot cannoned off the post on to the back of goalkeeper Eduardo and into the net.
But there was nothing lucky about the second goal as Milos Krasic cut in from the right past Domenico Criscito and fired a shot into the far corner in the 23rd minute.
Second-placed Lazio lost ground on AC Milan after a 1-1 draw at Parma left the gap at three points.
Hernan Crespo gave Parma the lead after 22 minutes, but Lazio equalized through striker Sergio Floccari in first half stoppage time.
In an thrilling game at Lecce, Giampaolo Pazzini scored a hat-trick to give Sampdoria all three points in a 3-2 win.
Pazzini opened his account after eight minutes and doubled his tally shortly before halftime from the penalty spot.
But back came Lecce after the break with goals from David Di Michele and Souleymane Diamoutene in the 73rd and 83rd minute respectively.
But home fans hearts were broken moments later when Pazzini popped up to complete fire home a third in the 88th minute to seal victory for the visitors.
In the battle at the bottom of the table Brescia lost 2-1 to Cagliari at home.
Andrea Caracciolo gave Brescia the lead after 20 minutes when he converted a penalty, but two second half goals within three minutes of each other from striker Alessandro Matri and midfielder Daniele Conti.
Cagliari rise to 17th place, one place above Brescia courtesy of a superior goal difference.
Palermo move up to seventh in the table after beating Cesena 2-1, while bottom placed Bari lost 1-0 to 10-man Catania after Christian Terlizzi scored a late winner.
