Tony Blair will lead a prestigious panel in a unique CNN and World Economic Forum joint debate, to be televised on CNN from this year's event in Davos.
Former UK prime minister Tony Blair will be among the distinguished panelist at the CNN televised debate.
CNN's extensive on-air and online coverage at this year's World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland is led by Richard Quest, Becky Anderson and Charles Hodson and features a new, daily on-air blogging segment, live interviews with key participants and concludes with an exclusive joint debate with the World Economic Forum that features Tony Blair and others.
"The most sophisticated communicators in the world converge at Davos and CNN is not just tapping into the major newsmakers but embracing the dynamic world of blogging, which is now a major part of the Davos experience," said Katherine Green, senior vice president of CNN International.
The daily blogging segment, "A Day in the Life of a Blogger" features prominent French blogger Loïc Le Meur, who provides viewers with a personal and beyond-the-headlines insight into what's really happening on the ground at Davos.
His segment is set to appear in the evening shows as well as part of CNN's daily coverage from Davos that features Quest, Anderson and Hodson reporting live from 0500 GMT / 0600 CET on Tuesday January, 22.
The special week of programming culminates on Sunday, January 27 at 2200 GMT / 2300 CET in an hour-long, joint CNN/WEF debate, "Dateline Davos," hosted by CNN's Hala Gorani.
The stellar panel line-up includes: Tony Blair, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (1997 -- 2007); Member of the Foundation Board of the World Economic Forum James Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer JPMorgan Chase & Co., USA; Wang Jianzhou, Chairman and Chief Executive, China Mobile Communications Corporation, People's Republic of China; K. V. Kamath, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, ICICI Bank, India.
Topics of discussion include fears of recession, high-priced oil, jittery global markets, the weak U.S. dollar, China and India's explosive growth as well as what the citizens of the U.S. are looking for in their next president.
In addition, CNN will offer all the latest news and analysis from the event as well as behind-the-scene images and blogs from CNN staff at www.cnn.com/davos.
As the forum gathers pace, CNN International viewers can also visit www.youtube.com/cnn to get involved with YouTube's "The Davos Question."
This interactive forum allows viewers to pose questions on the one thing that countries, companies or individuals must do to make the world a better place in 2008. The site will also include a focus on Davos, featuring user-generated content and reporter videos.  E-mail to a friend
