Schalke moved to within a point of German Bundesliga leaders Bayer Leverkusen after winning 2-0 away to fellow title hopefuls Werder Bremen on Saturday night.
Kevin Kuranyi and Jan Moravek scored in the second half to put Schalke a point above third-placed Bayern Munich, who earlier crushed lowly Bochum 5-1 to cap a memorable week.
Former Germany striker Kuranyi put Schalke ahead two minutes after halftime and midfielder Moravek ensured Bremen's first league defeat since the opening day of the season with his 72nd-minute goal.
Bremen could also have closed to within a point of Leverkusen, who were held 2-2 at bottom club Hertha Berlin on Friday night, but ended the night two points adrift of Bayern.
Louis Van Gaal's Bayern, runners-up to Wolfsburg last season, briefly reached their highest league position since he took over as coach in the summer as Mario Gomez continued his recent scoring run with the opening goal at Bochum and strike partner Ivica Olic netted twice.
Bayern, who crushed Italian giants Juventus 4-1 in midweek to qualify for the knockout stages of the Champions League, moved to within two points of leaders Bayer Leverkusen,
Olic set up Gomez's 23rd-minute header for the opening goal, and Mergim Mavraj put through his own net 10 minutes later as the Germany international tried to repay the favor to the Croatian.
Olic got on the scoresheet two minutes before halftime from Bastian Schweinsteiger's cross and made it 4-0 four minutes after the break with a header from Holger Badstuber's delivery.
Danijel Pranjic extended the lead five minutes later after fullback Phillip Lahm surged into the box and squared the ball to him, while Christian Fuchs scored a consolation free-kick for Bochum in the 76th minute.
Fifth-placed Hamburg joined Bremen on 28 points, winning 4-0 at Nuremberg to end a run of seven games without a win.
All the goals came in the second half as Eljero Elia's 47th-minute strike opened the floodgates, and he helped set up Marcell Jansen for the second on the hour mark.
Tunay Torun made it 3-0 six minutes later with a fierce rising effort after cutting in from the left, and Elia wrapped it up on 74 from Jansen's pass.
Sixth-placed Hoffenheim failed to keep pace with the teams above them, drawing 1-1 at home to Eintracht Frankfurt, and have now won just once in five league outings.
Sejad Salihovic opened the scoring for the hosts in the ninth minute with a penalty after Selim Teber fouled Vedad Ibisevic, but Pirmin Schwegler equalized for Frankfurt on 61 when his long-range effort hit Luis Gustavo and ballooned over goalkeeper Timo Hildebrand and into the net.
Borussia Moenchengladbach triumphed 5-3 at home to Hannover, who conceded three own-goals and had a player sent off in an incredible mid-table clash.
Defender Karim Haggui twice put into his own net -- the first an lucky rebound from goalkeeper Florian Fromlowitz's attempted clearance in the 15th minute to open the scoring, and he also contributed the game's eighth goal with his second faux-pas.
Constant Djakpa also conceded at the wrong end to give the hosts a 3-1 lead in the 59th minute, while Hannover's Didier Ya Konen scored in each half before being dismissed for his second yellow card on 84.
Cologne edged away from the relegation zone with a 0-0 draw at Freiburg as Germany international striker Lukas Podolski -- who has not scored in the Bundesliga since September 13 -- hit the woodwork twice for the visitors.
