Aaron Paul is still upset that Toys R Us pulled "Breaking Bad" action figures from its stores and noted that a petition to keep the figures has gained signers.
"Dear @ToysRUs, We have close to 30,000 signed on the petition, that is 3 times the amount that caused you to remove the toys. Talk to me. Ap," he tweeted.
Paul played Jesse Pinkman, the assistant to Bryan Cranston's meth-dealing Walter White, on the hit AMC show.
The toy store chain decided to pull the action figures thanks in part to an online petition that urged the store to stop selling them at their stores and online. The petition, issued by Susan Schrivjer of Fort Myers, Florida, received more than 9,000 signatures.
Using the name Susan Myers on Change.org, Schrivjer noted the store's "selection of toys for children of all ages." However, she added, "their decision to sell a Breaking Bad doll, complete with a detachable sack of cash and a bag of meth, alongside children's toys is a dangerous deviation from their family friendly values."
On Wednesday, Toys R Us gave in. "Let's just say, the action figures have taken an 'indefinite sabbatical,' " the company said in a statement.
Mother wants 'Breaking Bad' action figures removed from Toys R Us
But that wasn't what Daniel Pickett of Manhattan Beach, California, wanted to hear. He's the one who started the Change.org petition in favor of keeping the toys.
"Toys R Us' decision to sell a line of Breaking Bad ACTION FIGURES, complete with a detachable sack of cash and a bag of meth, in an aisle designated for adult collectors, featuring properties of a more mature nature that might appeal to older collectors, and away from the other 'kid' toys, shows that TRU understands there is more than one group of collectors that regularly come through their doors each day," he wrote.
Paul started poking at Toys R Us in tweets starting Thursday afternoon.
"Wait, so @ToysRUs pulled all of the Breaking Bad figures from their shelves and still sells Barbie? Hmmmm...I wonder what is more damaging?" wrote Paul.
He then posted another, more pointed, tweet.
"And what about all of the violent video games you sell @ToysRUs? Do you still sell those? Florida mom really messed it up for everyone," he wrote.
Cranston took a more light-hearted approach.
" 'Florida mom petitions against Toys 'R Us over Breaking Bad action figures.' I'm so mad, I'm burning my Florida Mom action figure in protest," he initially tweeted.
Cranston cracked wise again Wednesday after Toys R Us put out its statement.
"Toys R Us puts Breaking Bad toys on 'indefinite sabbatical.' Word on the street is that they were sent to Belize. Nicely played Florida Mom," he tweeted.
Ironically, Schrivjer told CNN affiliate WFTX of Fort Myers that she likes "Breaking Bad," the show. But seeing the action figures at Toys R Us was just too much.
"Kids mimic their action figures, if you will," she told the station. "Do you want your child in an orange jumpsuit?"
