"We're here! Oh, my God. Alina, you look so chic! Turn around!" -- the seal of approval from fashion's newest darling.
He's Patrick Pope, a Los Angeles-based Web producer who moonlights as P'Trique, the star of the viral videos, "S**t Fashion Girls Say." Since they debuted in February, the videos have had a combined 3 million views. P'Trique has come to New York Fashion Week, at CNN's invitation, to spend the day with me at the Tents. "Can I just tell you something," he says, "I am CHO-tally into you right now." Giggle.
In the nearly nine years I've been covering fashion for CNN, I have never seen anything like this.
We don't even make it across the plaza at Lincoln Center before we are mobbed by fashionistas, street style bloggers and the merely curious, angling to get a photo with fashion's latest celebrity. Once we're inside, it instantly becomes clear that P'Trique has a fan club in the land of the double kiss: Fern Mallis, Carlos Souza, Ken Downing -- big names in fashion, bowing to the man in the pink vintage dress. "You look so chic," says Fe Fendi. Derek Blasberg, editor-at-large at Harper's Bazaar, even had a cameo in "S**t Fashion Girls Say at New York Fashion Week." He says, "What I love about him is that he's the full package. He looks ridiculous. He says ridiculous things. The response has been ridiculous."
But looking good takes time. "How long does it take to get ready?" He answers, "Most of the time about two hours... and a team of about four."
What's fashion week without taking in a show? We're here to see Carlos Miele and we're sitting front row. In order to secure the highly sought after seats, we give Miele's team P'Trique's real name, Patrick Pope. "One thing I love about Carlos is he's from Brazil, so you know that he has taken into consideration the backside of a lady because Brazilian women got that donkey-donkey." You're kidding me, right?
The lights go down and the music begins. It's showtime. You haven't been to a runway show unless you've had P'trique sitting next to you whispering commentary. "Wow, she's like a butterfly. I feel like this whole collection is very land and sea, kind-of meets under a night sky," and adds, "I love those pants. I see those pants and I think sexpot."
P'trique also loves to model himself and worships the tall, leggy creatures on the catwalk. "She looks nice," he says.
After the show, I take P'Trique backstage through a crush of editors and retailers to meet the man himself: designer Carlos Miele. Turns out, P'Trique's commentary was right on target. What was Miele's inspiration? "A Chinese butterfly," he says.
Fashion Week can be grueling, but this was a total joy. In an industry some say takes itself too seriously, Blasberg says P'Trique, "is a breath of fresh air."
We double kiss and say goodbye ... for now. "Let's do this again," he says, "I'll see you in the future." I hope so.
Are you a fan of the "S**t Fashion Girls Say" videos? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.
