Arjen Robben scored twice on his debut as Bayern Munich gave new coach Louis Van Gaal his first victory with a 3-0 crushing of German Bundesliga champions Wolfsburg on Saturday.
Two-goal Arjen Robben made an immediate impact following his transfer from Real Madrid.
The Dutch winger netted both goals in the second half to add to Mario Gomez's first-half opener at the Allianz Arena.
The victory left Bayern five points behind new leaders Bayer Leverkusen, who went three points clear after four games with a 2-1 victory at home to Bochum earlier on Saturday.
Visiting Wolfsburg crashed to a second successive defeat, having lost 4-2 to Hamburg last weekend.
Armin Veh's team went behind in the 27th minute when Germany striker Gomez pounced for his second goal of the season after Diego Benaglio could only parry Hamit Altintop's long-range shot.
Van Gaal brought on Robben, signed during the week from Spanish big-spenders Real Madrid, at the start of the second half.
His first goal was set up by fellow substitute Franck Ribery in the 69th minute, with the Dutchman's shot taking a slight deflection off Andrea Barzagli.
Wolfsburg striker Edin Dzeko hit the post in the 72nd minute and his fellow frontman Grafite had an effort cleared off the line by Philipp Lahm soon after.
But Robben settled Bayern's nerves in the 81st minute from a counter-attack, with France star Ribery again involved.
Leverkusen trailed Bochum in the 32nd minute when Manuel Friedrich put the ball into his own net, deflecting Joel Epalle's shot past goalkeeper Rene Adler.
But the defender made amends four minutes before halftime when he headed home Michael Kadlec's long free-kick to equalize.
Stefan Kiessling fired the winner with just over 20 minutes remaining with a right-foot effort from a cross by Toni Kross for his fourth goal of the season.
In Saturday's other games, Freiburg ended Schalke's unbeaten run as Cha Du-Ri's goal five minutes before halftime gave the visitors their first win since returning to the top flight.
Hoffenheim also claimed a first victory of the league season, winning 1-0 at Hannover thanks to Carlos Eduardo's first-half strike.
Eintracht Frankfurt drew 1-1 at home to Borussia Dortmund, with Ioannis Amanatidis canceling out Mohamed Zidan's opener for the visitors.
Nurnberg moved a point above bottom club Cologne -- who face Hamburg on Sunday -- after a 0-0 draw at Stuttgart.
