Second seed Rafael Nadal was sent crashing out of Wimbledon, as he was beaten in five sets by unknown Czech player Lukas Rosol.
Rosol, ranked 100 in the world, sealed the biggest win of his life to record one of the biggest shocks in Grand Slam history.
He worried Nadal in a gruelling first-set tie break, but when Nadal held his nerve to win, it looked as though normal service would be resumed.
But Rosol fought back to win 6-7 (9-11), 6-4, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4 in three hours and 18 minutes and become the lowest-ranked player to beat Nadal in a Grand Slam tournament.
Nadal has not lost a Grand Slam match at the second round stage for seven years, and Rosol looked as surprised as everyone, as he described the win as "a miracle."
Even so, Nadal was outplayed as Rosol controlled the game throughout and kept his nerve as the pressure grew throughout against a player with 11 Grand Slam titles to his name.
Fourth seed Andy Murray, in the same half of the draw as Nadal and Rosol, was also given a stern test by big-serving Croat Ivo Karlovic before winning through to the third round at Wimbledon.
The 6ft 10in Karlovic made it an uncomfortable afternoon in the heat of Centre Court for British number one Murray.
Murray edged the first set 7-5 but wasted a couple of passing opportunities in the second set tie break as Karlovic levelled.
But the Scot responded well, winning the third set 6-2 in just 33 minutes before surviving another tie break to win through in four sets in three hours and 27 minutes.
The look of relief on Murray's face when victory was confirmed told the story of the game -- and that feeling was echoed all around Centre Court, as Murray left to a standing ovation.
"Winning is all that matters," Murray said. He added: "He's a tough opponent and there are very few who play like him."
Murray will meet Marcos Baghdatis in the third round after his Cypriot opponent Grigor Dimitrov retired through injury when trailing 7-5 4-1.
Another home player in fine form was British number two James Ward, who took 10th seed Mardy Fish all the way in a gruelling five-set match.
Fish won the first set before being pegged back and saw a match point go to waste in the fourth set before Ward took it on a tied-break. But Fish broke his young opponent's serve -- and his brave resistence -- midway through the fifth to seal a 6-3 5-7 6-4 6-7 (3-7) 6-3.
Argentine Juan del Potro also won in four sets as he saw off Go Soeda 6-2 6-3 1-6 6-4 on Court 18.
