Name: Kevin Evans
Weight in January 1994: 315 pounds
Current weight: 215 pounds
Size change: Size 40 to size 32 pants.
History: Evans never took his weight into consideration growing up. He said it wasn't really a problem until he reached college. "I've always had my baby fat, but as I got to college I started gaining more," he said. "After college, it continued. After graduate school, it continued."
Evans said he was unaware of the toll the additional weight was taking on his body. His mom, Helen, said she noticed he would become breathless while completing simple tasks, but she said she was too nervous to speak up. "I was going to say something to him about it, but I didn't want to hurt his feelings," she said.
"Aha!" moment: One foot stepped on a scale. Then the other. Evans, a program specialist at Cook Children's Medical Center in Fort Worth, Texas, waited in anticipation as the number beneath him rose higher. And higher. And higher.
It was 315 pounds -- a weight Evans had never dreamed of reaching, but he was forced to accept the indisputable reality that flashed before him. He never wanted to reach 400 pounds. It was time for a change, he said.
Have you lost weight? Tell us about your ''Aha!'' moment on iReport
How he did it: Evans purchased a treadmill to ensure he had access to workout equipment at all times without limiting himself to going to the gym or facing days of bad weather. He started doing cardio for 45 minutes, five days a week. The treadmill came with an eight-week plan for low-calorie meals that he could prepare.
He stayed focused on the program by keeping the price of the treadmill in mind: $1,200. "I would focus on how much I paid for the treadmill and for that not to be wasted," he said. "I was giving myself one chance to prove myself to myself."
Biggest obstacle: Evans said his biggest obstacle was managing his time. When he changed his diet, he included several items that he didn't usually eat, and working them into his daily routine initially was a challenge. He decided to sit down on Sundays and plan his workouts and meals for the week, including when he would prepare food.
Maintaining diet: While dieting, Evan aimed to eat 1,800 calories a day. Now Evans eats five meals a day, with calorie counts totaling 2,500. Some of the items on his regimen include protein shakes, eggs, turkey, almonds, baked chicken breast and steamed veggies.
Maintaining workouts: Evans does 20 minutes of cardio five days a week. He runs intervals for 10 minutes and then does 10 minutes of another aerobic activity such as the StairMaster or a rowing machine.
Notes of success: His mother said she has seen a distinct change in him, and she said she is proud of her youngest son's accomplishments. "I think he takes more pride in himself," she said. "I'm proud that Kevin is taking charge of his health."
Final thoughts: "You can't just go on a diet for a few months and lose weight and then go back to exactly how you were living before and expect everything to be the same," Evans said. "Ironically, it seems like the older I get, the better I get. I am also more self-confident and proud that I have been able to accomplish this."
Doctor's take: Talking to loved ones about their weight can be hard. Dr. Jan McBarron, who is certified by the American Board of Bariatric Medicine, suggests approaching a friend or family member from a nonaccusatory standpoint by asking questions such as, "How do you feel about your weight?" Then, if he or she seems ready to change, offer to help find credible sources for weight loss information.
