(CNN)Two former neighbors of Justin Bieber have filed a lawsuit against the pop star, claiming he and his bodyguards repeatedly harassed them and their family, vandalized their house with eggs and threatened them with anti-Semitic remarks.
In the lawsuit Jeffrey and Suzanne Schwartz say Bieber hosted frequent loud parties and spat in Jeffrey Schwartz' face after he complained about the pop star driving his Ferrari at dangerous speeds down the street of their gated community in Calabasas, California.
The suit, filed Thursday in Los Angeles Superior Court, also alleges Bieber's bodyguards dismissed Jeffrey Schwartz's complaints by taunting him repeatedly with "what are you going to do about it, Jew boy?"
The suit seeks unspecified damages and a jury trial.
Representatives for Bieber did not immediately respond to requests for comment Thursday afternoon.
The lawsuit comes after Bieber, 21, pleaded guilty last July to a misdemeanor vandalism charge stemming from a January 9, 2014 incident in which the Schwartzes' house was pelted with dozens of eggs. Bieber agreed to pay $80,900 in restitution for damages to the house and was placed on two years' probation.
It's the latest chapter in a string of legal troubles for the polarizing former teen idol, who in recent years has been convicted of careless driving and resisting arrest and is facing dangerous driving and assault charges after his ATV collided with a minivan last August in Canada.
Thursday's lawsuit alleges a nine-month pattern of "offensive" behavior by Bieber and members of his entourage from March 2013 to January 2014. The Schwartzes, who lived next door to Bieber, claim the harassment escalated after a March 27, 2013 episode in which Bieber spat in Jeffrey Schwartz' face and threatened to "f---ing kill" him.
The following year, after the egging episode made headlines, the Schwartzes say they and their children were subject to "constant harassment" by Bieber's entourage, fans and the media.
The couple are seeking damages on the grounds of assault and battery and infliction of emotional distress.
Bieber sold the Calabasas house for $7. 2 million last year to Khloe Kardashian and has since been renting a $60,000-a-month home in Beverly Hills, according to Forbes.
