When I think back on this past week and the rollercoaster of emotions I have experienced at the Paralympics, I realize that everything happens for a reason.
Hours before the London 2012 opening ceremonies I learned that my appeal to overturn my reclassification had been denied. In that moment I felt defeat.
I felt as though everything I had worked for the past four and a half years had been stripped from me, but it was then that I realized that the journey to get to this point wasn't about the medals.
The reason why I got back in the water in April 2008 nearly four months after being paralyzed, the reason that I devoted my life to swimming for the past four years, the sacrifices I made, and the person I became, wasn't about the medals.
I think it was easy for me to get lost in the numbers -- the number of how many golds I could win -- but when this happened it forced me to reflect on my journey and what got me to this point. I realized I did all of that to become the best possible swimmer, athlete and person I could be for this very moment, medals or no medals.
Read more: Follow CNN's live Paralympics blog
I poured my heart, soul, sweat and tears into these past four and a half years to challenge myself, to see just how far I can push my body, to move forward with life, and most importantly because I absolutely love to swim.
No matter what happens and what has happened, that is something that can't be taken away from me. That is something that no-one can strip from me. The work that I have put into this, the passion that backs it, and who I have become throughout this journey all remains the same no matter what classification I am.
As I went into Sunday's 50 meters freestyle, I knew what I had to do and I knew what I wanted. I had dreamed of that very moment for years and I wanted nothing more than to see our flag raised and hear the national anthem play.
Join the conversation on Twitter using the hashtag #cnnparalympics
I went into that race with some stiff competition. Competition I had never raced before. I sat in the ready room as a T10 complete paraplegic, no function from my belly button down, and I was up against girls who are single-arm amputees.
I sat there and watched them stretch their legs as I stretched my arms and I knew that it would be an uphill battle, but I also knew that nothing is impossible. As I got out to the blocks, everything from that point on became a blur up until the point when I hit the wall and turned to see my face on the big screen.
Read more: Paralympics classification controversy explained
I had done it, I had won my first Paralympic gold medal and I had done it despite my reclassification and everything that had happened. In that very moment the journey that brought me there flashed before my eyes.
Everything I had dreamed of came true. I proved to myself that no obstacle is too big to overcome. No matter what happens we all have the ability to overcome, and on Sunday I pushed my body to new limits and showcased my ability.
Follow and chat with Mallory Weggemann on Twitter
