(CNN Student News) -- January 9, 2014
Today's edition of CNN Student News takes a by-the-numbers look at the upcoming Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. We also explore avalanche dangers in snowy, backcountry terrain, and we look into a controversy over some student-athletes' reading scores.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might media coverage of an international sports event be different in the host country than it might be in other countries?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Sochi, Russia
2. avalanche
3. NCAA
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Where will this year's Winter Olympic Games be held? When do the Games begin?
2. What is an avalanche? Why is this a dangerous occurrence?
3. What did a recent CNN investigation reveal about some student-athletes in revenue sports at certain major colleges? How have some of the colleges responded to those findings?
Discussion Questions:
1. According to the report, what superlatives could be attached to this year's Olympics? What factors do you think contribute to the cost of hosting the Olympics?
2. Have you ever been skiing or snowboarding? If so, what advice would you give to someone trying these sports for the first time?
3. Why is there some concern over the reading abilities of some college athletes? What kinds of problems could low reading levels cause for college students? In your opinion, how should colleges determine who should be admitted as student-athletes?
4. Why do you think some colleges refused to provide data on their student-athletes' reading scores? Why do you think some were willing to provide this information?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
