Democratic presidential front-runner Sen. Barack Obama is in excellent health, according to a statement from his doctor, released by the campaign.
Besides being an "intermittent smoker," Sen. Barack Obama is in excellent health, his doctor says.
Obama, 46, last saw Dr. David Scheiner in January 2007, shortly before he declared he was running for president.
Scheiner, who has been Obama's primary doctor since 1987, observed that the Illinois senator's diet, weight, blood pressure and cholesterol were all healthy.
"In short, his examination showed him to be in excellent health," Scheiner said.
Obama "exercised regularly, often jogging three miles. His diet was balanced with good intake of roughage and fluids. ... On physical examination, his blood pressure was 90/60 and pulse 60/minute," Scheiner wrote.
The Illinois senator has been an "intermittent" cigarette smoker who has "quit on several occasions and is currently using Nicorette gum with success."
Sen. John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, released his health records last week.
McCain's doctors also described him as being in "excellent health," despite a history of skin cancer, and said there appears to be no physical reason why the 71-year-old candidate could not carry out the duties of the office.
Obama released a one-page statement from his primary care physician. He did not release any medical records or make his doctors available to the media.
By contrast, McCain made more than 1,000 pages of medical documents available to journalists, including CNN's chief medical correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta. Four of McCain's doctors held a conference call with reporters after the records were made available.
McCain has had four malignant melanomas removed. Three of them -- on his left shoulder, left arm and left nasal wall -- were limited to the top skin layer and were not invasive. They were removed in 1993, 2000 and 2002.
But a fourth melanoma proved to be invasive and was removed from his left lower temple in 2000, said Dr. John D. Eckstein, an internist who has been overseeing McCain's treatment for 16 years at the Mayo Clinic's campus in Scottsdale, Arizona.
