Former Manchester City manager Mark Hughes has resigned as coach of English club Fulham amid reports linking him with the vacant job at Aston Villa.
Hughes has only been in charge at Craven Cottage for a season, joining the London-based club seven months after he was sacked by City.
He led Fulham to eighth place in the English Premier League last season and the club qualified for UEFA's Europa League competition due to their standing in Europe's fair play table.
Hughes said he wanted a new challenge but insisted he hadn't been approached by any other club.
In a statement he said: "I hope the supporters and all those connected with the club will understand I wish to move on to further my experiences.
"I would also like to take this opportunity to clarify that neither myself nor my representative have approached or have been approached by another club. This decision to leave Fulham has not been influenced by any outside party."
Hughes, a former Manchester United and Barcelona striker, spent 18 months in charge at Manchester City, as the club were taken over by Abu Dhabi billionaire Sheikh Mansour, who has since spent around $1bn.
But Hughes was dismissed in December 2009 after a slump in league performances before he returned to the game to coach Fulham -- a job he claims he has done well.
"I would like to thank the chairman, directors, players and fans of Fulham Football Club for their support over the last 12 months and wish them every success in the future," he added.
"I believe my management team and I have done a good job and the club has a strong foundation from which they can go forward.
"I sincerely wish Fulham a successful campaign in the Europa League next season and for their continued progress on and off the field."
A statement on Fulham's official web site confirmed that Hughes had left the club. It read: "Fulham Football Club can confirm that Mark Hughes has provided notice, under the terms of his contract, to leave the club at the end of June.
"After discussions with Mark the club has agreed to accept this notice."
