The alleged "Barefoot Bandit" entered a not guilty plea during a federal court appearance Thursday, but a lawyer representing him said attorneys were working on the details of a plea agreement.
Colton Harris-Moore gained notoriety and earned his nickname for allegedly leading police on a two-year manhunt while eluding capture in stolen boats, cars and planes -- usually while barefoot.
In May, a federal judge added bank burglary to an indictment that contains five other federal charges stemming from Harris-Moore's dramatic July 2010 capture in the Bahamas. Four of the charges are punishable by up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
His attorney, John Henry Browne, told reporters a draft of a plea agreement could be finished by the end of the day Thursday.
Negotiations for a restitution amount are still under way, he said, adding that the amount will likely be about $1.3 million. Browne stressed that his 20-year-old client wants any money generated from likely book or movie deals to go to the victims.
"There's a lot of interest, there's active negotiations," Browne said. "He really doesn't want publicity, but regardless of whether Colton cooperates or not, there is going to be a movie made about (him), there will be other books written about him. That's going to happen no matter what."
Harris-Moore limped into court Thursday, but Browne noted that his client was smiling and joking. Browne said Harris-Moore is in "segregation" because officials are concerned about how he was injured. Browne attributed the limp to an injury Harris-Moore sustained during a volleyball game.
As the "Barefoot Bandit," Harris-Moore garnered a loyal and outspoken fan base on Facebook -- at one point amassing more than 50,000 fans.
He was arrested in July 2010 after allegedly crashing a stolen plane in the Bahamas and then trying to escape on a stolen boat. He'd been on the run from police since escaping from a Washington group home in 2008.
Harris-Moore's trial is scheduled to begin July 11.
