Xavi Hernandez scored the only goal of the game with a thunderous free kick as Barcelona beat nine-man Granada Tuesday to return to the top of La Liga.
The Spanish champions, held 0-0 at home by Sevilla at the weekend, once again found goals hard to come by against their struggling opponents.
But midfield ace Xavi did find the net with a long-range free kick on 32 minutes which flew into the top corner.
At the start of the second half Granada's Jaime Romero was shown red, but despite dominating possession Barca could not grab a second, but they have gone seven games, a club record, without conceding a goal.
In injury time, Granada's Daniel Benitez was also red carded after being cautioned for a second time.
Barcelona can be overtaken at the top by perennial strugglers Levante, who go in search of a remarkable seventh straight win against Real Sociedad Wednesday.
Real Madrid play Villarreal and can also leapfrog their arch-rivals with a win as Cristiano Ronaldo, on 98 goals for the club, aims to reach triple figures after his weekend hat-trick against Malaga.
In Italy, Juventus went back to the top of Serie A after beating Fiorentina 2-1 in Turin Tuesday night.
Udinese and Lazio are not playing until Wednesday as Juve took full advantage to regain the leadership they held until a 2-2 draw against Genoa Saturday.
Leonardo Bonucci put them in front but Fiorentina hit back after the break and equalized through Stevan Jovetic.
But Alessandro Matri grabbed the winner as Juve kept up their unbeaten start to the season.
England's League Cup fourth round saw an immediate return to winning ways for Manchester United after their 6-1 defeat to Manchester City Sunday in the EPL.
Making 11 changes to that team, Alex Ferguson's men beat fourth-flight Aldershot 3-0. Strikers Dimitar Berbatov and Michael Owen, who have been frozen out of league action, scored the opening two goals with Antonio Valencia getting the third.
Arsenal also reached the last eight with a 2-1 home win over Bolton.
