The Senate passed a spending bill to fund the government through next September — so why haven't they gone home yet?
Here's a look at what lawmakers could get done before they can hit the road and head home for the holidays.
So what's left on the agenda for Congress?
The Senate has to confirm about two dozen nominations, including some higher profile candidates for key administration spots. There are also two major policy items that remain unfinished — a reauthorization of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA), a law that helps insurance companies cover Americans in case of terrorist attacks, and the extension of a package of tax breaks that expired in 2013.
The House-passed version of TRIA remains somewhat controversial among Senate Democrats and Republican Sen. Tom Coburn, so its future is unclear. And though Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has indicated he'd like to extend those breaks, he hasn't yet given a timeline for action.
Didn't Democrats already approve most of those nominees this weekend?
They did clear procedural hurdles on most of those nominees during their rare Saturday session — an unintended consequence of Texas Sen. Ted Cruz's insistence that the Senate stick around and vote on the constitutionality of Obama's executive action on deportations. The conservative troublemaker was hoping to emphasize GOP frustration with Obama, but instead drew the ire of his colleagues by making them stick around on a Saturday, and by opening the door for Democrats to get a lot of the work of confirming those nominees out of the way.
RELATED: Senate sends spending bill to Obama, avoiding government shutdown
Will they get all two dozen nominees confirmed?
Many face minimal opposition, but there is a chance that the mere volume of work could leave some of the candidates unconfirmed, if fatigued lawmakers choose to get out of town and home to their families rather than tackle the less important nominees.
But Tony Blinken, Obama's nominee for deputy secretary of State, has drawn GOP opposition for comments he made lauding Iraq's stability. Republicans might also make some noise over Sara Saldana, who was nominated to head Customs and Immigration Enforcement, as a way to show their distaste for Obama's executive action on deportations.
But those other two items seem pretty straight forward — why are they still up in the air?
The controversies surrounding TRIA and the tax extenders bill are in the details.
A number of Senate Democrats oppose TRIA because it includes a provision that rolls back a part of the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill, much the same reason Democrats in both the House and the Senate opposed the government funding bill this weekend. And Coburn, a Republican from Oklahoma known for his outspoken commitment to fiscal responsibility, objects to a provision that creates a new federal bureau dealing with insurance companies without allowing states to opt out of it.
Coburn is so staunchly opposed, he's said he doesn't mind if it expires and the new GOP-led Senate has to take it up in January.
The tax extenders bill is simply an extension of more than 50 tax breaks that expired at the end of last year, and while some lawmakers say the short-term extension creates uncertainty for businesses down the line, it's largely uncontroversial.
That seems the more likely of the two to happen this week.
But votes don't typically take that long, and the Senate's first votes on Monday aren't scheduled until 5:30 p.m. How are they going to fill all that downtime?
By saying goodbye. With 11 senators retiring or leaving after losing this cycle, all are taking their final moments on the Senate floor to thank their colleagues and reminisce on their time in office. Most have said their farewells already, but there may be more tributes to come this week.
