Think half-eaten cookies and carrots are the only way to prove it was actually Santa who put that reindeer sweater under your Christmas tree? Think again.
Thanks to Google and the North American Aerospace Defense Command, also known as NORAD, you can track old Saint Nick on his Christmas Eve journey around the globe.
Log on to Noradsanta.org to view a special Google Map displaying Santa's whereabouts.
The map, which launched at 2 a.m. EST on Friday, uses little red and yellow presents to note the places Santa has already visited. Click on the presents to learn a bit about each location, like Rabaul, Papua New Guinea, where, according to the map, Santa visited at 8:16 a.m. EST on Friday.
A tiny Santa icon is used to show his current location while a countdown clock below the map lets users know where he'll take the sleigh next.
But NORAD's interactive tracker isn't the only way to follow Mr. Claus around the world on Christmas Eve.
Google Earth shows Santa and his reindeer in action as they make their way across the globe, from Seattle's Space Needle the to pyramids in Egypt and so on.
Traveling on Christmas Eve? NORADs got you covered.
Search "Santa" using Google Maps on your smartphone, or, better yet, just ask OnStar.
"Do you have an OnStar-equipped vehicle?" NORAD asks on its official Noradsanta Twitter page. "On Christmas Eve day, press the OnStar button and locate #Santa!"
The bi-national air defense command began tracking Santa in 1955 because of a typo in a Sears Roebuck & Co. advertisement, according to NORAD's website. The ad, reading, "Hey, kiddies! Call me direct on my telephone," accidentally printed the wrong number, directing children to the phone of the former NORAD director of operations.
Adding to the holiday excitement, first lady Michelle Obama teamed with NORAD to take calls Friday from children eager to know Santa's whereabouts, according to a NORAD press release.
"Hello, this is first lady Michelle Obama with NORAD Tracks Santa. How may I help you?" she said, according to the release.
Obama fielded the calls from Hawaii, where the first family will spend the holiday.
