Model and TV personality Chrissy Teigen is usually one of Twitter's more resilient members. But after getting lost in a "sea of hate and anger" on the platform, Teigen has tapped out.
The 28-year-old turned into a Twitter all-star after she joined in 2009, thanks to her irreverent sense of humor, prolific use and ability to tweet about pretty much anything.
But after getting a vitriolic response to her comments regarding the October 22 shootings in Ottawa, Ontario, Teigen posted that she's quitting Twitter for the (presumably) safer pastures of Instagram.
Here's what started it all: On Wednesday, as the shooting story unfolded, Teigen posted: "active shooting in Canada, or as we call it in america, wednesday. That's not a joke. It is a fact. ... I've lost faith in this world. Sorry if it comes off as being unemotional. There is just so much bad."
It seems the negative reaction fell on Teigen pretty quickly, as she then had to clarify that she was not making a joke at the expense of Canada, but as a sardonic observation about gun control in America. (Incidentally, it was just days before the Marysville, Washington, school shooting.)
However, that clarification apparently didn't change the tide of response Teigen received.
"You should probably stick to having your picture taken for a living," replied one user. "So, how much of an stupid bitch are you?" asked another.
At one point, Teigen posted a photo of the responses she was getting on Twitter, suggesting the platform should be more proactive about stomping out threatening tweets.
By October 23, Teigen was officially over Twitter.
"I can't see anything through the sea of hate and anger that is now my Twitter. Seriously I can't sift through it all," Teigen said. "It's gotten to the point people don't even see (t)he simplicity of the original tweet and have just wanted to get shaking-mad over something."
After sharing one more threatening message, this time from a Twitter user who hoped that "someone murders some(one) you love, like your f****t husband," Teigen posted what sounds like her final tweet -- at least for now.
"I feel sick," she said. "Bye Twitter. Taking my talents to Instagram."
