(CNN Student News) -- September 1, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• U.S. East Coast  • Pakistan • Chile
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Welcome to our show. Why is NASA testing a rocket that might never get off the ground? We're launching into the details in today's edition of CNN Student News. Hello everyone. I'm Carl Azuz. Let's get started.
First Up: Hurricane Earl
AZUZ: First up, Hurricane Earl. A viewer sent in the video you see over my shoulder here of Hurricane Earl. Yesterday, it was a category four hurricane with maximum winds around 135 miles per hour. This is a powerful storm. It's in the Atlantic Ocean and expected to turn towards the U.S. east coast tomorrow. Officials say Earl probably won't make landfall; that's when the center of the hurricane actually reaches shore. But the storm is so big that FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, says people along the coast may need to evacuate. On Monday, rain and wind from Earl knocked out power for hundreds of thousands of people in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. This iReport you're looking at shows some of the flooding in Puerto Rico.
Is This Legit?
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? A kilometer is longer than a mile. Not at all! It's the other way around. A kilometer is about six-tenths of a mile.
Pakistan Aid
AZUZ: A lot of people in Pakistan are traveling more than a dozen kilometers to try and get away from dangerous flooding. If you've been watching our show, you've seen our reports about these floods. They've killed more than 1,600 people in Pakistan and affected at least 17 million other people there. Aid is coming in from countries around the globe and from private companies: money, food, medical supplies. The U.S. is sending more helicopters to Pakistan to help distribute that aid top people who need it. Dr. Sanjay Gupta, CNN medical correspondent, is in Pakistan. He gives us a look at the journey that some families there are going through and the struggles that they're facing.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Most people actually are leaving like this: by foot, in the hot sun, walking for kilometers with no real idea of where exactly they're going or what they're going to find there. It is easy to see why they're leaving. We are literally surrounded by water, and they're worried that that water is just going to get higher and higher. So, they're fleeing the floods with the thing, the priority that they value the most, their livestock, and just starting to walk.
This is where so many of them ended up. They were just walking for kilometers and kilometers down that hot road, looking for high land, anything that could protect them from the flood waters. And look at what their lives are like now. Thousands of people, literally, they have this little barrier here. It is so hot outside, anything to try to keep themselves cool.
There's no question that relief is slow coming here, but even as we're filming today at the camp, this Pakistani army helicopter comes over and drops parcels of food. But this is just one camp. There are thousands of camps like this. There are more than 20 million people displaced. A fifth of this country is under water.
(END VIDEO)
Trapped Miners
AZUZ: Terrible conditions there. Now over in the South American country of Chile, efforts are underway to rescue 33 miners who are trapped more than 2,300 feet underground. They've been down there since a cave-in back in early August. All 33 people who are trapped survived and officials think it could take several months before they get out. The plan right now is to drill down through all that rock to reach the miners. What they're making at this time is called an excavation hole. That's where the drill bit will go. Reports are that the miners are doing all right. They're living off of supplies that are being sent down through bore holes. Now those things are only about 4 inches in diameter. A team from NASA is helping out with ideas on how to keep the miners healthy.
Sound Check
[SOUNDS OF ARES ROCKET TEST]
Ares Rocket Test
AZUZ: Behold: the Ares rocket. The thing kicks out 22 million horsepower. It could launch humans to the Moon, to Mars. It's a huge part of NASA's Constellation program. Just one problem: a lot of people don't want it, including some officials at NASA. The White House canceled the Constellation program. A panel declared that the Ares rocket is too expensive and behind schedule. So, the big question. Why run the test? Some members of Congress still want it. And since the money for Ares is still in the federal budget, at least for the moment, the company that makes the rocket is required to keep developing it, even if it never gets off the ground.
This Day in History
September 1, 1897 -- The first U.S. subway line begins service in Boston
September 1, 1939 -- Germany invades Poland, launching the start of World War II
September 1, 1985 -- The wreck of the Titanic is found on the ocean floor
Fix Our Schools
AZUZ: Well, I know you guys get assignments every day. I had a little homework last Thursday after we wrapped up CNN Student News. It was to interview 11 high school students from around the state of Georgia, some of the state's brightest for Fix our schools. This is a special project that's running all over CNN all week long. It takes ideas from teachers, administrators and, yes, students to look at how schools can succeed even while they're facing challenges. And you've probably seen some of those challenges at your school. Now that homework assignment that I had - that group of high school juniors and seniors that I sat down to speak to - yesterday we brought you what they had to say about what makes schools good. Today, we're focusing on teachers.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
AZUZ: Teachers, should they be your friends on Facebook?
FEMALE STUDENT: No.
AZUZ: Anybody think so? Go ahead.
ALEXIS JOHNSON, CHAMBLEE CHARTER HIGH SCHOOL: OK. So, my teacher has her own Facebook page, and all of my friends add her, all my classmates. And it's so convenient because we ask her a question on what homework we had that night and she automatically replies.
AZUZ: Any of you think teachers should not be your friend on Facebook? Want to say why?
JANVI CHAWLA, WALTON HIGH SCHOOL: I still really think a teacher is a teacher and students are just also there to learn.
AZUZ: What qualities does a good teacher have? Think of your best teacher. Tell me what he or she is like. Go ahead.
MCCALL STILES, NORTH OCONEE HIGH SCHOOL: She had a way of adding humor to the class. But then when we were studying, she would be serious about it. And we had a level of respect for her because she added that comedic level to the classroom.
AZUZ: Sort of a human factor?
STILES: Yes.
MARIA FLORES, ETOWAH HIGH SCHOOL: If it weren't for the dedication, the passion that my teachers have, we would all probably be all failing in those classes. But it's the fact that they're willing to stay after school, to be there before school, to walk around during lunch and come say, "Oh, you're working on the homework? How are you doing?"
AZUZ: So, I'm hearing passion, dedication and humor. Let's say your administration asks you to sit in on a hiring session. What qualities are you going to be looking for if you could make that decision to hire a teacher?
LARRY HOWARD, DEKALB SCHOOL OF THE ARTS: I would say someone that always prepares you for the next step.
JULIA ABELSKY, NORTH SPRINGS CHARTER HIGH SCHOOL: I would definitely ask them to talk about the subject, maybe talk about their favorite ways to teach. Beause my teacher, he doesn't teach the same way every day. He finds different ways to communicate the information. It really sticks once you laugh about it and you share experiences with your classmates.
AZUZ: You aren't afraid of a challenging teacher as long as you're learning something. Does anybody not like a hard teacher?
ALEX KELLY, CARVER HIGH SCHOOL: It depends on what you mean by "hard teacher," because there are teachers that be more hard than they should be. So, it's a difference between being hard and overly aggressive.
AZUZ: What do teachers do that make you shy away from learning?
ZACK KENT, APALACHEE HIGH SCHOOL: When you spend too much time on one subject and you can't complete the entire course, it makes me shy away from trying to study myself, because I think we're going to spend that much time, the rest of the time, on each subject, that long.
FLORES: Something that shies me away from learning is when I know what's going to happen in the classroom. For instance, I had a math teacher that, every day, we would walk in and we knew what we were going to do. We were going to check homework, take notes, start on homework. So, I think adding creativity to the teaching really helps keep our attention in the front of the classroom.
(END VIDEO)
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go today is something we've been laughing about at workall day long. Just watch it. Looks like man's best friend is man's best dance partner. That dog is burning up the dance floor, and this YouTube video is burning up the internet. You might think we're just showing this just because it's awesome video, and you're right. But it also fits in with one of the main goals of CNN Student News.
Goodbye
AZUZ: Making sure our show has plenty of balance. Time to clear the dance floor for now. CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz. We return tomorrow fired up and ready to go. Looking forward to seeing you then.
