(CNN Student News) -- October 23, 2013
The U.S. economy leads off Wednesday's program, as we examine some economic indicators and hear how Americans think the economy is doing. After a report on the spread of wildfires in Australia, we consider how an invasive species of fish is affecting some Atlantic Ocean ecosystems. Plus, we explore a company's plan to let people invest in their favorite athletes.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What might be the pros and cons of using a news report to gauge the state of the national economy? How might such a report compare and contrast to one on your local economy?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. economic indicator
2. invasive species
3. investment risk
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What different reports were released regarding the U.S. economy? How did Americans respond to a poll on the economy?
2. What weather conditions are conducive to widespread wildfires in Australia?
3. Describe the "athlete investment" program described in the report.
Discussion Questions:
1. What are some ways in which the national economy might have an impact on a local economy, and vice versa? How can you tell how well your local economy is doing? What media would you use to find this information?
2. What factors do you think led to the population explosion of lionfish in the Atlantic Ocean? What unique challenges might exist when trying to control the population of an invasive species that lives in the ocean?
3. What might be the pros and cons of investing in a professional athlete, using the program described in the show? What might be the benefits and drawbacks for the athlete? Would you consider investing in an athlete? If so, what information would you use to determine if an athlete is a good investment? If not, why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Australia
North America
Bermuda
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
