January 16, 2014
This Thursday on CNN Student News, we give an overview of a U.S. Senate committee's report regarding a 2012 terrorist attack on an American facility in Libya. We also examine what's at stake in Egypt as its citizens vote on a new constitution. And we report on the effects of scorching summer temperatures in Australia.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were a journalist writing a story about a technology company, whom would you want to interview, and why?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  referendum
2.  Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
3.  net neutrality
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1.  What happened at the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012?
2.  What is the focus of elections taking place in Egypt?   According to the report, what is on the line, and why?
3.  What kind of extreme weather is impacting parts of Australia?  How is this weather leading to other dangers?
4.  What company did Google just buy for $3 billion?  According to the video, what is the rationale behind this purchase?
Discussion Questions:
1.  Summarize the findings of a recent Senate report regarding a 2012 terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya. According to the U.S. State Department, what steps are being taken in response to this report?  Are there other actions you think should be taken?  Explain.
2.  What is a constitutional referendum?  Why do you think that any national vote on a new constitution might be a tense one?
3.  Explain what net neutrality is and how Tuesday's federal court ruling could potentially impact it.  Do you think this could change your Internet experience?  Explain.  How do you think that consumers might impact the future of net neutrality?
4.  What challenges exist for any company whose business strategy includes gathering information about people's connected lives?  How do you feel about this strategy?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
