MANCHESTER, England -- Owen Hargreaves curled in a superb free-kick, 18 minutes from time, to give Manchester United a 2-1 Premier League victory over Arsenal at Old Trafford.
Hargreaves curls his match-winning free-kick over the Arsenal wall and past Lehmann.
The win lifted United six points clear of Chelsea, who meet Wigan on Monday, and effectively ended Arsenal's fading title bid.
The Gunners trail United by nine points with four matches left to play.
Emmanuel Adebayor gave Arsenal a 48th minute lead but Cristiano Ronaldo  equalized from the penalty spot minutes later with his 38th goal of the season.
The loss dooms Arsene Wenger's side to their third season without a trophy and ends a black week which also included a Champions League quarterfinal defeat to English rivals Liverpool.
England midfielder Hargreaves, best known for his determined defending, Scored United's 100th goal in 50 games this campaign when his curled free-kick from the edge of the box over the wall left goalkeeper Jens Lehmann standing.
Adebayor headed Arsenal in front three minutes into the second period when he met Robin van Persie's cross and profited from confusion between United keeper Edwin van der Sar and center-back Rio Ferdinand.
There were no complaints from United about the goal but tv replays suggested Adebayor may have handled the ball rather than knocked it in with his head, even though he was just a few yards away from goal.
Six minutes later Arsenal defender William Gallas clearly handled inside his own area and referee Howard Webb pointed to the spot.
Ronaldo netted but Webb ordered the penalty to be re-taken because of encroachment by other players.
Lehmann, only playing because of a wrist injury to first-choice keeper Manuel Almunia, was then booked for delaying the second kick.
Ronaldo, making light of the pressure of the situation, stuck with his stuttering run-up and struck the ball low and hard past the German international's right-hand.
Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard scored and created a goal for Fernando Torres in a 3-1 win over Blackburn Rovers at Anfield.
Spain striker Torres now has 30 goals this season and midfielder Gerrard 21 .Substitute Andriy Voronin added a third in the 90th minute.
This win left Liverpool five points clear of city rivals Everton in the race for the final Champions League qualifying spot.
Sunday's match, played out against a backdrop of ongoing boardroom rows at Anfield, was all square for an hour until England midfielder Gerrard beat several Rovers players on the edge of the box before sliding the ball past goalkeeper Brad Friedel.
Torres then became the first Liverpool player to score in seven consecutive top-flight games at Anfield when he headed in Gerrard's cross eight minutes from time.
Voronin then got on the end of a John Arne Riise cross to make it 3-0 before Roque Santa Cruz pulled a goal back for Rovers in stoppage time. E-mail to a friend
