Thieves must have something against Justice Stephen Breyer.
The Supreme Court confirms the 73-year-old justice's Washington home was burglarized earlier this month. It follows a February incident in which Breyer, his wife and a guest were robbed in his Caribbean vacation home by a machete-wielding intruder.
Court spokeswoman Kathy Arberg said no one was home during the May 4 burglary, which was discovered by a housekeeper. No court-related materials were stolen from the residence in the Georgetown section of Washington, Arberg said, but she could not say what else may have been taken.
Breyer had no comment on the latest incident, which was first reported by the Washington Post.
Police on the island of Nevis had earlier arrested and charged a local man for the separate armed robbery of the vacationing Breyers.
The justice, his wife Joanna, and another guest were in the couple's second home February 9 when an armed man broke in and robbed the occupants of about $1,000. Officials said no one was hurt in that incident, either.
The male assailant fled the scene, according to Arberg. The robbery was reported to local authorities shortly after it happened.
Nevis is part of the West Indies chain known as the Leeward Islands, located about 350 miles southeast of Puerto Rico.
The court does not talk publicly about specific security arrangements for the justices, either when they are at home or on their frequent travels. The court building is protected by a special Supreme Court Police force.
The U.S. Marshals Service provides protection for members of the high court when they are traveling domestically.
The justices return to public session Monday morning to release orders and opinions.
Breyer was nominated to the high court in 1994 and is known as one of the most active and engaging members of the court.
The couple also owns a home in the Boston area -- where Joanna Breyer works as a clinical pediatric psychologist at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute -- as well as another vacation property in western New Hampshire.
