An Ohio jury on Monday began the sentencing phase for convicted serial killer Anthony Sowell, ultimately deciding whether he should receive life in prison or the death penalty for killing 11 Cleveland-area women between 2007 and 2009.
Jurors on July 22 convicted Sowell of 11 counts of aggravated murder and more than 70 other charges, including abusing corpses and kidnapping. The sole not-guilty verdict came on an aggravated robbery charge.
On Monday, they heard from prosecutors asking for the death penalty and from defense attorneys trying to save Sowell's life.
"We believe that, at the end of the day ... at the end of all the evidence, that you will decide that death is not the appropriate penalty in this particular case," said John Parker, who is representing Sowell.
During the sentencing phase, the defense could call up to 28 witnesses -- among them family members, acquaintances and five expert witnesses -- according to Cuyahoga County court administrator Gregory Popovich. They are expected to wrap up their case in four to five days.
The prosecution expects to call two or three witnesses of its own, during the rebuttal phase, Popovich said.
Sowell will be able to make a statement on his own behalf without being under oath or facing cross-examination from prosecutors, said Ryan Miday, a spokesman for the Cuyahoga County prosecutor's office.
Sowell has been classified as a "sexually violent predator," meaning parole is not an option, Miday said.
If jurors decide to recommend that Sowell die for his crimes, the judge can overrule that recommendation and impose a life sentence. But if jurors decide to spare Sowell's life, the judge cannot impose a death sentence, Popovich said.
Sowell's convictions ended a saga that began in October 2009 with the discovery of the first two victims' remains inside Sowell's home. He eventually was accused of killing at least 11 women ranging in age from 25 to 52.
He grew up in East Cleveland, joined the Marines at age 18 and traveled to California, North Carolina and Japan, authorities said.
Sowell served 15 years in prison for attempted rape before being released in 2005. People who met him after his release described him as "a normal guy." He was known locally for selling scrap metal.
Sowell's inconspicuous two-story home sat in a dilapidated neighborhood known as Mount Pleasant. At one point, one in five homes there was in foreclosure and at least a third of the residents received food stamps, according to a 2010 study by Case Western Reserve University's Center on Urban Poverty and Community Development. A stench hovered around the area, but no one realized it was the scent of decaying human flesh, instead assuming it was a byproduct of a nearby sausage factory.
Many of Sowell's victims struggled with drug addiction at some point, and court records showed many resorted to stealing and prostitution to support their habits. The disappearances of the women -- many of whom lived near him -- went largely unnoticed for two years, with only four women being reported missing.
In late 2008, a woman named Gladys Wade told police that a man in a gray hoodie offered her beer, and when she declined he punched her in the face several times. Wade said he then tried to rape her, dragging her toward his home, and that she escaped after "gouging his face."
Police investigated Wade's complaint, and one police report noted the presence of blood droplets on Sowell's walls and steps. But officers told CNN affiliate WKYC that the case was dropped after Wade declined to press charges. Six more women disappeared after her complaint.
The first bodies were discovered after a 36-year-old Cleveland woman told police a story similar to Wade's. It was also similar to the story of the woman whose 1989 account led to Sowell's attempted rape conviction. The Cleveland woman said he had invited her into his home for beer, punched her in the face and began performing oral sex on her -- letting her go only after she promised to return the next day.
Most of the women whose remains were found in and around Sowell's home had been strangled by ligature, which can include a string, cord or wire, and at least one had been strangled by hand, officials said. Seven women still had ligatures wrapped around their necks. A skull was all that remained of one victim; it had been wrapped in a paper bag and stuffed in a bucket in the home's basement.
At Sowell's trial, his defense rested without calling any witnesses or presenting any evidence, according to CNN affiliate WOIO. His defense attorneys have declined previous requests by CNN to explain their case.
