Chelsea captain John Terry was charged by the English Football Association (FA) Friday over his verbal clash with Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand during a Premier League match last year.
Terry was cleared by a London court last month of racially abusing Ferdinand in the incident, but the FA has decided to take its own action after seeking independent legal advice.
"It is alleged that Terry used abusive and/or insulting words and/or behavior towards Queens Park Rangers' Anton Ferdinand, contrary to FA rules," read an FA statement.
"It is further alleged that this included a reference to the ethnic origin and/or color and/or race of Anton Ferdinand.
"This charge is the result of The FA's long-standing enquiries into this matter, which were placed on hold pending the outcome of the criminal trial, and relates to rules governing football only. "
Terry said Friday that he denied the charges and would be requesting a personal hearing.
He was found not guilty after a five-day trial at Westminster Magistrates Court which went into precise detail about the circumstances of the disagreement between the two players during the televised match on October 23 last year.
Terry was stripped of the England captaincy in February over the allegations, leading to the subsequent resignation of national team manager Fabio Capello, just months before Euro 2012.
Terry played in the finals under new manager Roy Hodgson while awaiting his criminal trial.
Meanwhile, Manchester City midfielder Samir Nasri was given a three-match international ban by the French Football Federation over his behavior at Euro 2012.
Nasri mouthed an obscenity to a television camera after scoring France's equalizer in the 1-1 draw against England in the group stages.
He also insulted a journalist after France lost in the quarterfinals to Spain.
He will miss World Cup qualifiers against Finland and Belarus in September, but will be available for a rematch against Spain in October.
French teammate Jeremy Menez received a one-match ban for his clash with captain Hugo Lloris in the Spanish defeat.
