Barcelona will be without influential midfielder Andres Iniesta for most of the decisive run-in to the end of this season as the Catalan side seek to retain their Spanish and European titles.
Iniesta had only just returned to Josep Guardiola's team last week as a substitute for the second leg of the Champions League quarterfinal against Arsenal, and then also came on in the 2-0 win at Real Madrid, but has suffered another injury blow in training after tearing a calf muscle.
The 25-year-old Spain international could be out for up to a month, Barcelona's Web site reported on Tuesday, meaning he may not be fit to return until the club's final domestic league match against Real Valladolid on May 16.
"Andres Iniesta suffered the injury during training and doctors have diagnosed a total rupture of the right femoral biceps muscle," the club's Web site said.
Iniesta is set to miss the Champions League semifinals against Italian champions Inter Milan on April 20 and 28, but may return for the final on May 22 in Madrid if Barca progress that far.
Barcelona lead Real by three points with seven matches to play ahead of Wednesday's home clash with Deportivo La Coruna, while their title rivals travel to Almeria on Thursday.
Barca will again be without injured striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic, but the Sweden international is expected to return to training before Saturday's local derby at Espanyol, the club's Web site reported.
Meanwhile, Sevilla's hopes of qualifying for next season's Champions League suffered another blow with a 2-1 defeat at relegation-threatened Valladolid on Tuesday night.
Sevilla stayed in fourth place on goal difference from Mallorca, who travel to struggling Zaragoza on Wednesday.
Valladolid remained second from bottom despite giving former Spain coach Javier Clemente victory in his first home match.
Clemente has earned four points from two games since taking over as Diego Costa headed the opening goal four minutes before halftime and fellow striker Manucho scored the second eight minutes after the break.
Juan Cala pulled one back from long range with seven minutes left, but Sevilla fell to a ninth defeat from 16 away games this season.
Getafe claimed seventh place from fellow Europa League Villarreal with a 3-0 victory in Tuesday's late match.
On-loan striker Miku netted twice, scoring either side of a free-kick from Mane as all three goals came in the second half.
Goalkeeper Diego Lopez gifted Miku the 56th-minute opener, and he pushed Mane's 25-yard strike onto the post and slowly over the line with 18 minutes left.
Tenerife stayed in the third relegation place, one point above Valladolid, despite registering a first away win this season, 2-0 at mid-table Sporting Gijon.
Roman Martinez and Alejandro Alfaro scored in the final 20 minutes to put the islanders just two points behind Malaga, who travel to Osasuna on Wednesday.
