Washington teachers on strike for seven days reached a tentative agreement Wednesday to end their protests, following the intervention of the governor, a spokesman for the teacher's union said.
"There's a tentative agreement, which we will now vote on," Union spokesman Rich Wood told CNN. "All of the big issues, class size, teacher pay and transfers we were able to agree on."
Wood said more details of the planned deal would be discussed at a Thursday meeting for some 2,000 teachers who left the classroom for the picket line after negotiations with the Tacoma school district for a new contract broke down. Wood said teachers could go back to school as early as Friday if they approve the deal.
A spokesman for the school district did not respond to CNN requests for comment on the proposed agreement.
Earlier Wednesday, Washington Gov. Christine Gregoire announced she would referee the feud between the Tacoma school district and striking teachers that had kept 28,000 students from classrooms for seven days.
Negotiations at her office lasted about seven hours Wednesday before the agreement was announced.
"This agreement provides a long-term solution, meets the districts needs and ensures teachers remain proud to report to their classroom every day," Gregoire said in a statement.
Last week, a state judge ordered the teacher's union and school district to restart stalled negotiations and told striking teachers to get back into the classroom.
But the teachers, who have rejected school district proposals for a new three-year contract, continued their protests.
Bryan Chushcoff, the judge hearing the case, said teachers and the union are defying his order.
A hearing had been scheduled for next Tuesday to determine what penalties the teachers and union could face.
Chushcoff said last week that an agreement could prevent further litigation from taking place over the strike.
Contract talks between the school district and union fractured over teacher pay, class size and how educators are transferred between schools.
Across Washington, state services cuts are in the works after the governor's office last week said the state is expected to collect $1.4 billion less in revenue between now and June 2013 than previously forecast.
