For actress Kyra Sedgwick, it's the public's approval that makes it worth being away from her family for six months to tape her critically acclaimed series "The Closer."
Kyra Sedgwick and her husband, Kevin Bacon, at the 66th annual Golden Globe Awards this month.
But she may be getting more approval from her peers, too.
Sedgwick will walk the red carpet again Sunday night at the Screen Actors Guild Awards, where she is nominated for a fourth consecutive year for outstanding performance by a female actor in a drama series for her role as Deputy Chief Brenda Johnson. She's also won a Golden Globe for her performance, in 2007.
The TNT series resumes Monday night where it left off in September with what Sedgwick called "a fantastic five episodes." (TNT is a unit of Time Warner, as is CNN.)
"I said to the writers, 'I really want a lot of personal stuff for Brenda,' " Sedgwick said. "I feel like there's some of those personal quiet moments with her alone, is something that I've been missing as an actor, and I feel like the audience has been missing, too.
"She is such a complicated, fascinating character, and watching her growth and lack of growth is something that is really interesting," she said.
When CNN asked whether the new episodes might include a wedding for her character, Sedgwick laughed.
"That might very well happen," she said. "That's pretty insightful of you. I'm just going to just say that."
A marriage for Brenda Johnson would be "a complicated, difficult situation," she said, because "she's basically married to her work."
Sedgwick's job also complicates her real-life marriage to Bacon, since the show is produced in Los Angeles and the couple lives in Connecticut with their two children.
That's where the approval -- whether on the street from fans or at award shows -- has "been a wonderful phenomenon for me," she said.
"On a personal level, that's really good for me, because I really miss my family when I'm working on the show six months in L.A.," she said. "As much as I try to get my kids to move to L.A. and my husband, they just wouldn't have it.
"It's challenging, and I'm glad that people are watching, because otherwise it would be kind of hard to go to work," Sedgwick said.
Sedgwick has moved into an executive producer's role on the show, which she said she expects to continue for at least two more years.
"I love being with a group where there's not a power struggle," she said. "I have a lot of say, and I always have. And that feels really good."
CNN Radio's Jackie Howard contributed to this report
