The mother of murdered schoolboy Damilola Taylor has died of a suspected heart attack, The Press Association reported Wednesday.
Gloria Taylor outside London's Central Criminal Court with Damilola's older brother Tunde in 2006.
Gloria Taylor, 57, collapsed while walking with her husband Richard in south-east London Tuesday, the agency reported.
Efforts to revive her at hospital failed and she was pronounced dead moments later, according to London police headquarters Scotland Yard.
Damilola, 10, bled to death after being attacked on his way home from Oliver Goldsmith Primary School in November 2000. He staggered 100 yards with blood pouring from a sliced artery in his leg after being stabbed.
Nigerian-born Damilola had been in Britain for only a few months when he was attacked while walking home from an after school computer club.
Damilola's killing was front-page news in Britain, and prompted soul-searching on topics ranging from the deprivation of inner cities to school bullying.
A year after their son's death, the Taylors established the Damilola Taylor Trust, aimed at improving the lives of underprivileged young people.
The trust offers scholarships for medical students from poor backgrounds, and also set up the Damilola Taylor Center, in Peckham, south-east London, which provides sports and community activities.
At the time, Gloria said the trust aimed to provide hope and opportunities for Britain's "downtrodden and underprivileged youth". "Damilola lost his life because of enormous problems in this society. Our son wanted to be a doctor.
"He was a leader, and we are sure he would have been extraordinary. We would like the trust to heal many of the ills faced by today's youth," The Guardian newspaper reported her saying at the time.
In August 2006, two teenage brothers were convicted of his manslaughter and given eight-year youth custody sentences. Danny and Ricky Preddie, who were 12 and 13 at the time of the killing, were convicted at a retrial.
The conviction came after three trials and two police investigations, parts of which were strongly criticized, The Guardian reported.
PA quoted a Metropolitan Police spokeswoman as saying: "Police were called at about 7.45pm on April 8 by London Ambulance Service to reports of a woman taken ill on the street in Shooters Hill.
"Local officers and London Ambulance Service were in attendance and a woman in her 50s was taken by ambulance to hospital suffering a suspected heart attack and was pronounced life extinct at 8.29pm.
"A post-mortem examination will take place in due course. "The incident is being investigated by local borough officers and is currently being treated as non suspicious."  E-mail to a friend
