Thai prosecutors were poised to issue an arrest warrant Tuesday for the grandson of the creator of the Red Bull energy drink who failed to appear in court this week over a fatal hit-and-run case that sparked nationwide anger.
Prosecutors allege Vorayuth Yoovidhaya, 28, was behind the wheel of his Ferrari on September 3, 2012, when it collided with an on-duty policeman on a motorbike in downtown Bangkok.
He is charged with reckless driving causing death, speeding and failing to stop following an accident.
Thai police told CNN that Yoovidhaya's lawyer had informed prosecutors his client was in Singapore receiving medical treatment for a bout of influenza he contracted while on a business trip and would not be in Thailand for his scheduled court hearing.
Thai prosecutor Ruecha Krairiksh said his no-show meant that the speeding charges would lapse but the more serious charges of reckless driving and failing to stop would still apply.
The reckless driving charges carry a maximum penalty of 10 years in jail under Thai law.
"We can't indict him because the suspect is not present. This means the statute of limitations for speeding will expire because the incident occurred on September 3, 2012," Mr Ruesha told The Nation newspaper.
He said he would ask the court to withhold bail because of his failure to present himself in court and for postponing meetings with prosecutors.
His case provoked outrage in Thailand last year with online forums denouncing the Thai justice system for its perceived leniency towards defendants with money and connections.
An alleged attempt to cover up the crime -- which involved police arresting a suspect who pretended to be driving his Ferrari at the time of the incident -- led to the suspension of a police officer and sparked even more outrage.
Yoovidhaya also allegedly paid the family of the victim Thai baht 3 million ($97,000) in a bid to stall a civil lawsuit, police said.
The defendant is the grandson of the Chaleo Yoovidhya who formulated an energy drink called Krathing Daeng, or Red Bull, that first became popular with Thai workmen. He teamed up with Austrian Dietrich Mateschitz in 1987 and together they built an international drinks brand.
According to Forbes magazine, the Yoovidhya empire is worth $7.8 billion, making them the fourth richest family in Thailand.
Chaleo died in March 2012, leaving his heirs a vast estate based on his 49% stake in the iconic drinks brand, as well as interests in hospitals, real estate and sports teams.
