He shocked the football world when he led Zambia to glory in the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations. Now Herve Renard is heading to France in a bid to turn around the fortunes of struggling club Sochaux.
Frenchman Renard coached "The Copper Bullets" to victory in Equatorial Guinea and Gabon last year, with a penalty shootout win over Ivory Coast crowning Zambia champions of Africa for the first time.
After exiting this year's tournament at the first round stage and failing to guide Zambia to the 2014 World Cup, Renard will return to his homeland with Sochaux, which has won just one of its first nine Ligue 1 games.
"Herve Renard has been released from the job of Zambia national coach," read a statement from the Football Association of Zambia (FAZ).
"He has been offered a wonderful opportunity at Sochaux. FAZ and Herve have consulted and it has been agreed not to stand in his way."
"It is a compliment for a coach working in Africa to be head-hunted by a European club. It makes us proud to take ownership of Herve's rise."
Renard will replace Eric Hely, who resigned after Sochaux was beaten 5-1 by Guingamp in September.
Under the stewardship of caretaker boss Omar Daf, the team won its first league game of the season against Valenciennes but was then thrashed 4-1 at Bordeaux last weekend.
Sochaux is second-bottom of the Ligue 1 table with five points, two points from safety.
Blog: Five things we learned about FIFA
Meanwhile in England, Premier League club Sunderland has appointed Gus Poyet as a replacement for controversial former coach Paolo Di Canio.
Sunderland has endured a torrid start to the season, sitting bottom of the table with just one point from seven matches.
Poyet, who has been out of work since leaving second-tier Brighton and Hove Albion in June, has been tasked with bridging the six-point gap between Sunderland and safety.
"We analyzed a wide range of candidates and believe that Gus's track record, experience, commitment and passion make him the right man to take us forward," Sunderland's American chairman Ellis Short said in a statement.
"We welcome him to Sunderland."
Survival in England's top division is now more important than ever, with clubs looking to cash in on the league's lucrative broadcasting rights deals.
Such is the wealth on offer that even the team which finishes bottom of the 20-team Premier League will pocket a reported $100m in broadcasting revenue for the 2013-14 season.
