Editor's note: Morieka Johnson writes about pets, fashion and money-saving ideas for MNN.com. You can follow her and more green writers on Twitter @MotherNatureNet.
(MNN.com) -- If you have a pet, you know that squeezing a topical solution on your dog each month may be the easiest and most effective way to fight fleas. Most of the products contain a synthetic insecticide that attacks a flea's nervous system. The solution is applied along a dog's back and usually spreads from follicle to follicle within a day.
But this popular method has come under fire recently due to reports of adverse reactions among dogs and cats. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has called for more stringent testing and evaluation requirements as well as stronger warning labels. In the meantime, I admire you for seeking a chemical-free approach.
Here are a few green options for you to consider.
MNN: 9 animals that use prosthetics
Find a flea comb. Regular flea maintenance will require a cache of flea-fighting tools, starting with a good flea comb. These fine-toothed wire tools come in a variety of shapes and sizes. Choose an ergonomic version and schedule standing appointments with your dog for a thorough combing.
Read the label carefully. Look for products such as Bio-Groom Flea and Tick concentrate, which contains Pyrethrin, a biodegradable insecticide that's made from chrysanthemums. While you still need to exercise caution when applying the chemical, it's a better option to topical solutions that contain permethrin.
MNN: Pet lovers hope to get new law on wills
Try neem oil. This all-natural insect repellent comes from the neem tree in India. Add a few drops to your favorite pet shampoo, dilute it with dishwashing liquid for a do-it-yourself flea spray or simply apply the oil directly to your dog's coat. The primary ingredient in grooming products by Ark Naturals, neem oil also repels mosquitoes.
Consider an oral treatment. Oral tablets provide another alternative to topical solutions. Products like Capstar and Comfortis go to work quickly, killing any adult fleas a few minutes after being consumed.
MNN: New restaurant in Copacabana serves dogs in style
Enjoy Christmas in July. A relatively new company on the scene, Vet's Best uses the power of peppermint and clove oils to fight fleas and ticks. I haven't tried it yet, but the idea of a sweet-smelling dog appeals to me.
Consult your dog's vet about the remedy that works best for your pet, and follow label directions carefully. Keep in mind that dust mites can create more havoc than fleas, so it pays to tackle that problem, too.
© Copyright 2011 Mother Nature Network
