Two-time champions Nigeria failed to qualify for the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations after being held 2-2 by Guinea on Saturday.
Second-half goals from strikers Victor Obinna and Ikechukwu Uche put Nigeria 2-1 ahead in Abuja, but Ibrahima Traore's 90th-minute equalizer ensured that Guinea finished top of Group B by three points.
The Super Eagles missed out on one of the runner-up spots as two of their three wins came against bottom nation Madagascar -- and only results against the top and third-placed teams count.
Nigeria won the tournament in 1980 and 1994, and finished third in four of the last five stagings.
South Africa, champions in 1996, also failed to qualify for next year's event in Equatorial Guinea and Gabon after being held 0-0 at home by Sierra Leone.
Niger went through from Group G instead on head-to-head results despite losing 3-0 in Egypt, after both nations finished on nine points.
Ghana, runners-up in 2010, qualified in first place from Group I after a 2-0 win away to Sudan thanks to first-half goals from striker Asamoah Gyan and defender John Mensah.
Sudan could yet claim the remaining runner-up spot depending on the results of Sunday's Group D and H matches.
Libya shook off the north African country's political strife to seal a place as Group C runners-up after a 0-0 draw away to Zambia, who clinched top spot.
Mali went through as Group A winners despite conceding an injury-time equalizer in the 2-2 draw away to Liberia.
Cedric Kante put the visitors 2-1 ahead in the 87th minute but Patrick Wieh leveled in the second minute of time added on.
Cape Verde Islands also ended on 10 points after beating Zimbabwe 2-1, but finished second on head-to-head results and missed out on a 2012 place on goal difference.
Burkina Faso topped Group F after drawing 1-1 with Gambia, but face an appeal from Namibia -- who complained about the fielding of Cameroon-born defender Herve Zengue in their two defeats.
Angola topped Group J after winning 2-0 away to Guinea Bissau.
Uganda's 33-year wait to qualify continues after a 0-0 draw with Kenya left the nation a point adrift in second place.
Tunisia joined Botswana in qualifying from the five-team Group K after a 2-0 home win against Togo clinched second place.
Malawi missed out following a 2-2 draw away to Chad, with Karl Max Barthelemy earning a point for the home side in the fourth minute of time added on.
