The mother of child murder suspect Casey Anthony affirms her belief in her daughter's innocence and expresses fear for her safety in letters released by court officials on Thursday.
"You stay strong Casey," Cindy Anthony tells her daughter in one letter from May. "Many, many people believe in you and are trying to get to the truth. Not everyone has been brainwashed and not everyone is trying to cover his/her butt."
Casey Anthony is charged with capital murder in the death of her 2-year-old daughter Caylee. The girl was reported missing in July 2008, and investigators found her body after five months of intense searches and speculation.
In the May letter, Cindy Anthony writes that she "freaked out" when she saw her daughter being escorted into the courtroom by heavily armed deputies.
"I was worried that there's treats [sic] on your life and are finally being taken seriously," she wrote. "I swear there are maniacs out there. I hope they step up security next year, for all of us. It's going to be nuts. Hopefully by then somebody will actually look at the evidence and clearly see that they need to be looking for the real person that took our Caylee."
In June, after Casey Anthony tripped on her way to a court appearance and showed up with a chipped tooth and cut lip, her mother said she had been "worried that something was going to happen to you." She thanks her daughter for trying to call on Mother's Day, and tells her, "I had a dream the other night that you will be home."
"I know you better than anyone," Cindy Anthony wrote. "Even with unanswered questions I still know the person you are and love you have in your heart. Your problem is that you are too trusting like I was. Unfortunately, we both found out how ugly and mean people really are. There's very few people you can trust."
The letters were released as part of discovery in the case. In June, prosecutors released more than 5,000 pages of documents that ranged from marriage proposals from admirers to calls for Casey Anthony to be put to death. She has pleaded not guilty and has refused to see visitors, because the sessions would be videotaped and eventually released.
In a July letter, her mother laments, "I just wish we had the ability to speak to each other."
In Session's Aletse Mellado contributed to this report.
