Jesse Jackson Jr. grew up in his father's shadow, placing him on history's stage as the Rev. Jesse Jackson Sr. led civil rights campaigns, including Operation PUSH and the Rainbow Coalition.
Jackson was born in 1965, just months before President Lyndon Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act, which forced election changes that opened up the political process for African-Americans in the United States.
He spent his 21st birthday in a District of Columbia jail cell after being arrested in an anti-apartheid protest at the South African Embassy in 1986, according to the biography on his congressional website.
He was on the stage in Cape Town in 1990 when Nelson Mandela delivered his historic speech after his release from 27 years in a South African prison, the biography says.
The younger Jackson earned a Master of Arts degree in theology and then a law degree in 1993.
He served as national field director for his father's Rainbow Coalition, a role that included leading the campaign to register millions of new voters, the biography says.
In 1995, the 30-year-old Jackson became the 91st African-American elected to Congress. Since then, he has represented Illinois' 2nd Congressional District, which includes parts of Chicago's South Side and Cook County suburbs.
A potential opportunity created by Barack Obama's election as president in 2008 ironically triggered a series of events that nearly four years later threatens Jackson's political career.
Jackson, then 43, spoke with then-Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich in fall 2008 about the possibility of being appointed to serve the remaining two years of Obama's vacated U.S. Senate term. Blagojevich was arrested by federal agents the next day, and was accused of trying to sell the seat to the highest bidder.
Jackson said he only presented his credentials and polling information that suggested he could win re-election in 2010.
Blagojevich, eventually convicted on multiple corruption charges, started serving a 14-year prison sentence in March.
The House Ethics Committee has been examining allegations Jackson or one of his associates offered to raise funds for Blagojevich in exchange for the Senate seat.
"In doing so, Rep. Jackson may have violated federal law and House rules concerning the proper use of the member's representational allowance," the statement said.
Jackson has maintained his innocence and pledged to continue to cooperate with authorities."I did nothing illegal, unethical or inappropriate in that pursuit, and I believe that is what the Ethics Committee will conclude at the end of this process," he said.
Jackson apologized to his constituents in September 2010, after the Chicago Sun-Times reported that a Chicago businessman told federal investigators that Jackson had asked him to pay for a restaurant hostess to fly between Washington and Chicago several times.
He said he was "deeply sorry" that he had "disappointed some supporters."
The newspaper also reported that the businessman, Raghuveer Nayak, told the FBI that Jackson asked him to raise $6 million for Blagojevich in exchange for Obama's vacated Senate seat. The governor ended up appointing former Illinois Attorney General Roland Burris to the Senate post.
Despite the congressional investigation, Jackson decisively won a heated primary for a 10th term.
The congressman disappeared from Capitol Hill in May, and in June explained in a statement released by his staff that he was taking a leave of absence because he was suffering from a "medical condition."
On Wednesday, Jackson's office released a statement that said he is "receiving intensive medical treatment at a residential treatment facility for a mood disorder." The statement attributed the quote to an unidentified doctor.
The doctor also was quoted as saying Jackson "is responding positively to treatment and is expected to make a full recovery."
Jackson's wife of 21 years, Sandi Jackson, is a Chicago alderman. The couple met and married during law school. They have two children, Jessica Donatella and Jesse L. Jackson III.
