British Prime Minister David Cameron Wednesday announced a reduction in the British troop level in Afghanistan, removing 500 service members by the end of next year.
In remarks to the House of Commons, Cameron said the move will bring the troop level to 9,000, and more reductions will be carried out in the coming years.
"We are now entering a new phase in which the Afghan forces will do more of the fighting and patrolling, and our forces more training and mentoring," Cameron said.
"As President Obama said in his address last month, the mission is changing from combat to support."
Cameron emphasized the move "marks the start of a process which will ensure that by the end of 2014 there will not be anything like the number of British troops there as there are now -- and they will not be serving in a combat role."
After 2014, he said, Britain will have a "major strategic relationship with Afghanistan," involving development, training, diplomacy and trade.
"Above all, we have a vital national security interest in preventing Afghanistan from once again becoming a safe haven for international terrorism. So although forces will not long be present in a combat role, we will have a continuing military relationship," he said.
The announcement was made on the eve of the sixth anniversary of the July 7 terror attack in London, and Cameron makes the point that the attack was "inspired by al Qaeda and executed by extremists following the same perverted ideology that underpinned the September 11th attack in 2001."
Cameron noted that international troops have been putting pressure on al Qaeda and the Taliban in Pakistan and Afghanistan, pointed out the killing of al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, and cited the weakening of al Qaeda.
He also said there's evidence to indicate that the Taliban's "momentum" in Helmand province -- in which British troops have been based -- has been stopped.
"In 2009, my predecessor told this House that some three-quarters of the most serious terrorist plots against Britain had links to Afghanistan and Pakistan. We must always be on our guard, but I am advised that this figure is now significantly reduced," Cameron said.
The planned reduction comes as other countries also make preparations for drawdowns and shift to plans for non-combat missions in Afghanistan, such as training.
U.S. President Barack Obama recently announced the withdrawal of 33,000 American troops by the end of next year.
France announced that it would also begin to reduce troop numbers, saying it "will initiate a progressive withdrawal of troops in Afghanistan, and will follow a timetable comparable to the withdrawal of the American troops."
Canada this week is ending its combat mission in Afghanistan and transitioning to a training role.
Britain's 500-troop reduction does not include the previously announced plan to withdraw 426 British military personnel by February.
Along with the military strides, Cameron said the Afghanistan security forces have been making great improvements. For example, he cited their handling of the aftermath of the Kabul hotel attack last week.
"The Afghan forces dealt with it professionally and speedily, only calling in assistance from a NATO helicopter to deal with insurgents on the roof," Cameron said.
Britain has long had the second-largest contingent in NATO's International Security Assistance Force, the coalition that has been fighting militants in Afghanistan. The United States has the largest.
The number of British troops who have died in Afghanistan stands at 375.
The latest was on Monday, when Scott McLaren, from D Company, The Highlanders, 4th Battalion The Royal Regiment of Scotland, was killed. He had been reported missing and was found later Monday after an "extensive search," the Defence Ministry said.
