(EW.com) -- It's been an interesting year for Charlie Sheen. From getting fired from his gig on "Two and a Half Men" to flooding Twitter with non-sensical ramblings (#winning anyone?), and most recently, appearing on the Emmys to wish his old co-stars good luck, he's had his share of ups and downs. And tonight, he got called out for them.
Comedians Seth MacFarlane, Jon Lovitz, Jeffrey Ross and Mike Tyson (?), among others, were all on-hand for Sheen's sometimes brutal Comedy Central roast, which aired shortly after his character's mock funeral on Two and a Half Men (poetic timing much?).
The comedians took a no-holds barred approach, taking aim at Sheen's history of employing prostitutes and using drugs (read eight of the meanest jokes here). Even Sheen's kids weren't off-limits.
"If you're winning, this must not be a child custody hearing, said Ross. "The only time your kids get to see you is in reruns -- don't you want to live to see their first 12 steps?" Sheen laughed and applauded. The comedian also singled out Sheen's ex-wife Brooke Mueller (who was in the audience), in an especially touchy bit alluding to the actor's previous domestic violence charges.
"[Brooke Mueller] is not very bright unless Charlie throws a lamp at her," Ross said. He later added, while addressing Tyson, "There's no denying the fact that Mike Tyson had the hardest hitting right hook in history -- your opponents spent more time bleeding in the corner than Charlie's ex-wives."
For his part, Sheen seemed to take it all in stride and even fired back with some zingers of his own ("I'm done with 'the winning' because I've already won"). Although, it's hard to imagine he didn't feel a single singe while sitting in that hot seat.
But how about you? Did the heat from Sheen's roast make you uncomfortable? Or were you enjoying the skewering? Do you think the jokes went too far? Or was it all fair game? Weigh in with your take in the comments below.
See the full article at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
