While the trials and tribulations of Lindsey Vonn have dominated skiing headlines this season, one of her rivals has been quietly carving out her own place in the history books.
Tina Maze is already far ahead in the race to usurp Vonn as overall World Cup champion, and on Sunday she joined the American as one of only six female skiers to win a race in each of the alpine sport's five disciplines.
The Slovenian won the first Super G event held in the Austrian resort of St. Anton in 14 years to move 550 points clear of closest rival Maria Hoefl-Riesch.
"I'm not really concerned about making history when I get prepared for a race, but it is always a nice thing to hear once it's done," the 29-year-old told the FIS World Cup website after her sixth win this season.
"I've worked hard to win my first Super G, I got very close to winning last season. I could not have made it if there wasn't such a good team of people around me. The summer preparation was conducted in the best way possible and it's been paying off so far."
It was Maze's 17th World Cup win overall, still a long way off Vonn's leading 57.
"It's amazing to see Tina do so well. She's been on a roll -- top three in every event. She's clearly running away with the overall. It's cool to watch. I think it's great for the sport and I'm really happy for her," Vonn said.
The four-time World Cup champion won the first two Super G races this season, but then took a month off due to stomach problems.
Vonn returned to action in Saturday's downhill at St. Anton, finishing equal sixth -- and improved by two places to retain a 20-point lead over Maze in the Super G standings.
"I think that it was a good weekend to reconstruct my season," said Vonn, whose divorce from husband Thomas Vonn after a year of separation came through last week.
"I rediscovered my confidence. I am really eager to get to Cortina. I think that next weekend will see me in better form."
Maze headed off Austria's Anna Fenninger, while Switzerland's Fabienne Suter was third in her best result since returning from a serious knee injury.
Meanwhile, Marcel Hirscher extended his overall lead in the men's World Cup with victory in the slalom at Adelboden to repeat his 2012 victory at the Swiss resort.
The Austrian was beaten by Ted Ligety on Saturday when the American took advantage of his rival's mistake to win the giant slalom, but this time Hirscher recovered from eighth place in the opening run to beat compatriot Mario Matt and third-placed Italian Manfred Moelgg.
Hirscher is now 126 points ahead of second-placed Norwegian Aksel Lund Svindal, with Ligety 179 adrift in third.
