Germany underlined their impressive credentials ahead of Euro 2012 with a 3-0 thrashing of arch-rivals the Netherlands on Tuesday in Hamburg.
The Germans, who will be among the favorites next year in Ukraine and Poland, swept aside the 2010 World Cup runners-up with veteran striker Miroslav Klose inspirational.
He set up Thomas Muller to put the home side ahead in the early stages before helping himself to the second goal and his 63rd for Germany in the 26th minute.
It left him just five short of the legendary Gerd Muller's all-time record.
The 33-year-old Lazio striker then worked in Real Madrid's Mesut Ozil for a close range strike in the 66th minute as Germany sealed their first win over the Dutch since 1996.
"The whole team made the match a lot of fun to play in," Ozil told AFP.
Meanwhile, world and European champions Spain needed two goals in the final seven minutes to rescue a 2-2 draw with Costa Rica in their friendly clash.
Just three days after a 1-0 defeat to England, Vicente Del Bosque's Spain fell behind on 31 minutes in San Jose when forward Randall Brenes capitalized on an error from goalkeeper Iker Casillas to clip a shot over defender Carles Puyol and into the empty net.
It was a nightmare moment for Real Madrid's Casillas, who was celebrating making his 127th appearance for Spain and becoming their most-capped player.
It got worse for Spain three minutes before half time when Lorient striker Joel Campbell, who is on-loan from English Premier League side Arsenal, doubled Costa Rica's lead.
Spain pressed in the second half, eventually breaking the home team's resistance with seven minutes remaining when Manchester City playmaker David Silva finished after a neat exchange with midfielder Andres Iniesta.
Barcelona's David Villa spared Spain's blushes as the match entered stoppage time, stooping to head home his 51st international goal and rescue a draw for the visitors.
Elsewhere, England made it two wins in five days at Wembley with a hard-fought 1-0 win over Sweden.
England made several changes from the side which beat Spain 1-0 last Saturday, but were largely in command for much of the match against their fellow Euro 2012 qualifiers.
It was England's first win over Sweden in 43 years and captain John Terry, recalled to the team despite being under investigation for alleged racial abuse, said he never had any intention of sitting the match out because of the controversy.
"No chance," he said. "I'm very passionate, very confident being England captain and very proud to be, also."
England's only goal in the first half, their 2,000th in internationals, was originally given to midfielder Gareth Barry, but his header took a final touch off Sweden's Daniel Majstorovic.
Debutant Jack Rodwell missed a glorious opportunity for his first goal for England and Manchester United youngster Phil Jones also went close as the home side might have added further to their tally against a below-par Swedish side who rarely threatened.
Meanwhile in Rome, Sebastian Fernandez scored the only goal of the game as Uruguay beat Italy 1-0 win in the Olympic Stadium.
Mario Balotelli went close for Italy before former Juventus fullback Martin Caceres crossed for Fernandez to help the ball home.
