(CNN)Nick Gordon, Bobbi Kristina Brown's boyfriend, says he hates her father, singer Bobby Brown.
The conflict is one of many revelations in a newly released promo for an upcoming episode of "The Dr. Phil Show."  In the clip, Gordon cries and laments missing Bobbi Kristina and her mother, the late Whitney Houston.
"I miss Krissy and Whitney so much," a tearful Gordon says. "I want them back."
Brown was found unresponsive in a bathtub on January 31 at her home in Roswell, Georgia. She has remained hospitalized after doctors placed her in a medically induced coma. Police have said they are treating her case as a criminal investigation.
Gordon, who tweeted that he gave Brown CPR after finding her in the tub, has complained via social media about not being allowed to see her.
"Let me be very clear, Mr. Gordon was offered an opportunity to potentially visit Bobbi Kristina and he declined to meet the terms of any possible visit," Bobby Brown said last month in a statement through his lawyers. The terms were not revealed.
"In an effort to do all he can to visit, Nick has repeatedly offered to meet with Mr. Brown privately to discuss his request in person, rather than through lawyers," lawyers Randall M. Kessler and Joe S. Habachy said in a statement. "Those offers have also been rejected. We hope Mr. Brown has a change of heart."
Gordon began living with Houston and her daughter after the superstar singer took him in when he was a teen. After her death, he and Bobbi Kristina became romantically involved.
In a Facebook post on Friday, Bobbi Kristina's aunt Leolah Brown wrote an open letter to Dr. Phil, claiming that Gordon is being investigated by the police regarding what happened to her niece.
"If Nick Gordon does not have the courage to speak with my brother Bobby Brown and/or law enforcement about what happened the day my niece's body was found in a bathtub, he does not deserve to have a platform to speak to anyone of your caliber until this investigation is concluded," she wrote.
Gordon appears with his mother in the "Dr. Phil" clip, and the talk show host questions his sobriety.
"You've been drinking a lot though, right?" Dr. Phil asks before telling Gordon, "I want you to go straight to rehab."
According to People, Gordon did check into rehab after filming. The episode is scheduled to air Wednesday.
