German champions Bayern Munich will seek compensation from the Dutch Football Association after learning that star forward Arjen Robben will miss the start of the new season.
Bayern revealed on Tuesday that the Netherlands winger will be sidelined for two months with a thigh injury he suffered in an international friendly before the start of the 2010 World Cup in South Africa.
Robben missed the first two matches of the tournament, but the 26-year-old went on to play a key role as the Dutch reached the final before losing to Spain.
He had a routine scan on his return to Munich following a post-World Cup break, revealing a torn muscle in his left thigh.
"This diagnosis after my return to the club comes as a huge shock. I'm extremely disappointed, as the enforced break is a big setback for me and for the team," he told the club's website.
Bayern Munich chief medical officer Dr Hans-Wilhelm Mueller-Wohlfahrt said he had brought up his suspicions after Robben suffered the injury against Hungary.
"This is a serious injury. I consider it irresponsible that this injury was not more precisely diagnosed, and that Arjen was allowed to play," Mueller-Wohlfahrt said.
"I personally offered my assistance in diagnosing the original injury on several occasions, but this offer was never taken up."
Bayern chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge said the club would be taking up the matter with the Dutch FA.
"Naturally, FC Bayern Munich is extremely angry. Yet again, we as a club are having to pay the price for a player sustaining a serious injury with his national team," the former Germany striker said.
"We will seek to reach an amicable settlement to this problem with the Dutch Football Association. Football's world governing body FIFA has been informed about Arjen Robben's injury, and we have requested FIFA to act as a mediator if necessary."
Bayern welcomed World Cup stars such as Philipp Lahm, Thomas Mueller, Miroslav Klose and Bastian Schweinsteiger back for pre-season training on Monday, along with young Germany midfielder Toni Kroos -- who is back at the club after spending last season on loan at Bayer Leverkusen.
The Champions League runners-up kick off the new German league season at home to the 2009 Bundesliga winners Wolfsburg on August 20.
Meanwhile, Schalke have followed up the signing of Real Madrid striker Raul by bringing in left-back Sergio Escudero, 20, from Spanish club Real Murcia on a four-year contract for an undisclosed fee.
Belgian club Anderlecht earned a place in Friday's Champions League second-round qualifying draw after beating Welsh side the New Saints 6-1 on aggregate.
Striker Romelu Lukaku scored a second-half double as the Belgian champions won 3-0 at home on Tuesday night.
Israeli side Hapoel Tel-Aviv also progressed with a 3-2 aggregate victory over Kazakhstan's Aktobe.
Hapoel lost the away leg 1-0 but led 3-0 at halftime through Eran Zahavi, loan stiker Ben Sahar and an own goal from Khalifa Elhadj Ba before Aktobe's Murat Tleshev scored a consolation in time added on.
Austria's Rapid Vienna moved into the playoffs of the second-tier Europa League with a 4-0 aggregate win against PFC Beroe Stara Zagora.
Croatia international Nikica Jelavic scored twice in Tuesday night's 3-0 victory over the Bulgarian Cup holders, with Markus Katzer sealing the result.
