The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame on Wednesday named its latest inductees, adding talent such as the Red Hot Chili Peppers and 1960s singer-songwriter Donovan.
The Beastie Boys, who have been blending hip-hop, punk and other genres since the 1980s, also made it onto the Hall of Fame's final list for 2012. So did Guns N' Roses, the hard rock standard bearers of the late '80s and early '90s, and Laura Nyro, the innovative pop songstress.
Other artists inducted by the Hall under the performer category included the '60s British group The Small Faces -- best known for their psychedelic hit "Itchycoo Park" -- and their subsequent incarnation, The Faces, which featured Rod Stewart.
"It's quite a thrill and honor to make it in the Hall of Fame a second time," Stewart said in a statement. "We (The Faces) were always synonymous with a good party, and with this list of fellow artists being inducted I'm looking forward to a true piss up ... and it's a hell of a good reason to reunite and celebrate with my old mates."
The Faces' Ronnie Wood added in a statement: "Needless to say we are all very excited about this great honor. At the same time our thoughts go out to the late Steve Marriot -- who Rod and I greatly loved -- and of course to the much missed Ronnie Lane."
The Beastie Boys also expressed excitement.
"We're in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame? That's ... crazy and awesome!" the group said in an expletive-laced statement. "While we are very proud of the music we make, we have to acknowledge the inspiration from our families, friends and musicians like the Slits, Bad Brains, X-ray Spex, the Treacherous Three and too many others to possibly name. And most of all, we give thanks to New York City and the world of musical influence it provided for us."
On his Twitter account, Chad Smith of the Red Hot Chili Peppers commented: "Those Crazy bastards at the hall of fame are putting us in this year?!! Howabout them apples! Seriously..I'm very humbled and grateful. Wow."
Slash, another inductee, also tweeted, "Thanks for all the R&RHF mentions, Its quite an honor to be inducted. Cheers!"
The acts that made the final cut beat out competition from the likes of The Cure and Rufus with Chaka Khan, who had been among the nominees.
The Hall of Fame singled out the music producer and promoter Don Kirshner for the nonperformer award. Kirshner, whose live TV rock show helped wean 1970s audiences off lip-synched programming, died in January.
And it cited the guitarist Freddie King for his early influence on rock and roll.
The induction ceremony will take place on April 14 in Cleveland, Ohio.
CNN's Denise Quan and Michael Martinez contributed to this report.
