(CNN Student News) -- May 23, 2014
China vows to severely punish those responsible for an apparent terrorist attack. This Friday, we report on what happened, and we examine NOAA's forecast for the upcoming Atlantic hurricane season. We also look into the history of Memorial Day, and we report on what Americans should look out for concerning a nationwide recall of ground beef.
Please note: CNN Student News will return on Tuesday, May 27 after the Memorial Day holiday.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What audio and video elements would you include in a local news story about Memorial Day?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What European nation located east of the Adriatic Sea experienced its worst flooding since records have been kept?
2. After English and Spanish, what is the most widely spoken language in homes across the U.S.?
3. What iconic toy, also the single best-selling toy of all time, celebrated its 40th birthday this week?
4. What U.S. government agency is charged with regulating communications including satellite, cable and TV?
5. What form of law is imposed when the military takes over a country, usually in times of emergency?
6. In what U.S. state did residents in the town of Moore remember those who lost their lives in an EF5 tornado one year ago?
7. What was the occupation of the person who designed the current U.S. flag?
8. To what central African nation has the U.S. sent 80 troops to assist in the search for kidnapped Nigerian girls?
9. By what name was Memorial Day originally known?
10. The U.S. Department of Agriculture has recalled 1.8 million pounds of what food due to possible E. coli contamination?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
