Who would have thought it? Team Brazil just scraping by in a cliffhanger penalty kick shootout.
But from here on out, where every game means somebody's going home, there's a 12th man on the field, a true equalizer -- roaring determination.
And it nearly snatched victory for Chile.
But Brazil's dream of winning a World Cup on its own soil has survived.
It meets Colombia in the quarterfinals after it sent Uruguay home to join striker Luis Suarez, whom FIFA suspended for biting an Italian player last week.
That may have cost Uruguay the game, but at the same time, Colombia has hit the World Cup like a whirlwind, and fans are swooning for their stand-out midfielder James Rodriguez. He has shot half of Colombia's total 10 goals in the tournament so far.
Newby fans of Team USA soccer who left the television on over the weekend instead of waiting for America's faceoff with Belgium on Tuesday, must certainly have caught footy fever from Saturday's exhilarating matches.
More to come, in the Round of 16 knockout matches -- see viewing times and channels below. Also included: a nice treat at bottom. Here's what to watch for:
1. Hangovers
They may be epidemic in Brazil after the celebration parties. Three factors are at work here:
A. It was a Saturday night.
B. Brazil won.
C. Duh, it's Brazil during World Cup.
But Brazil fans have a lot of time to recover from the party, since Brazil doesn't play again until Friday. If they win that quarterfinal match against Colombia, get ready of a repeat of last night.
In the meantime, fans can take in two games on Sunday while vegging in front of the TV.
2. Offense vs. Defense
Netherlands vs. Mexico, noon ET Sunday, ESPN and Univision
The Dutch players could easily be mistaken for a road repair crew if they wear their hunter-orange jerseys on Sunday. But the color should be taken seriously as a symbol of how on fire they are.
They have shot the most goals in group play at this year's World Cup -- 10, topping Germany and Brazil, which had seven each.
They dominated their group, roundly stomping reigning world champ Spain 5-1 in their first game.
But offense isn't everything, as Mexico's team will attest. They practically put a brick wall in front of their goal during group play, allowing just one ball to get in. They held Brazil to a 0-0 tie.
All they need to do now is score more. Javier Hernandez might just have it in him. He's been quite a goal-getter in the past.
And Dutch fans certainly make an impression parading down Brazil's streets in those bright jerseys.
3. Feels like the first time
Costa Rica vs. Greece, 4 p.m. ET Sunday, ESPN and Univision
They've never met before, FIFA says. Not once. And at the World Cup, this is only Costa Rica's third appearance, and only Greece's second.
Costa Rica has shot twice as many goals so far as Greece, while allowing only one and putting away major contenders Italy and Uruguay.
Sound like Greece is the underdog? FIFA ranks the team 12th in the world and Costa Rica 28th.
4. Line-dance craze
Colombia has not only won each of its games so far, it has also won the hearts of millions of fans.
The spirit of the team's play, the scoring surge by Rodriguez. But crowds also love Colombia's signature celebration group dance. If Colombia continues its winning streak, it may catch on.
Watch for it in a disco near you.
Click the pic to play!
