(CNN Student News) -- May 10, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Mississippi River  • Japan • Normal, Illinois
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Hello, everyone! This Tuesday on CNN Student News, we're taking you under the big top. First, though, we're headed down the mighty Mississippi.
First Up: Flood Waters Rising
AZUZ: That would be the Mississippi River, which is causing floods up and down its path through the United States. Want to take you down the river now to check out some of what's been going on.
We're gonna start in southern Illinois, in the city of Cairo. You see it right there on your screen. Flooding was threatening to wipe out the entire town. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers came up with this plan to help Cairo and some other communities nearby. And that brings us down into Missouri. What the Corps did was intentionally blow up a levee, a barrier that's designed to actually prevent flooding. That helped the towns up in Illinois, but it purposely flooded some parts of Missouri, some farms. And a lot of people, especially farmers, angry with this plan. One farmer said she felt like she was suffering for somebody else.
The flooding has followed the Mississippi's path through Arkansas and down into Louisiana, as you see here. Yesterday, engineers opened a spillway north of the city of New Orleans. The goal here is to help ease the pressure on the river, hopefully lower the flood levels, keep the water away from New Orleans. But just to get an idea of how much water we're talking about, a commander with the Army Corps of Engineers offered an analogy. He said the water that's rushing through the Mississippi right now, in one second, could fill up an area the size of a football field 44 feet deep.
We're also seeing flooding in states that the Mississippi branches off to, like Tennessee. Holly Firfer has more on the situation there.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
HOLLY FIRFER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Tennessee's largest city is in the cross hairs. Memphis now has the "most high-risk population" for flooding, according to the Army Corps of Engineers.
On Tuesday, authorities expect the Mississippi to crest at 48 feet outside the city, less than a foot shy of the record level set in 1937. With the Mississippi swollen by a month of abnormally high rainfall, its tributaries are overflowing, with nowhere for their water to flow.
At least 1,100 homes and trailers in and around Memphis have been evacuated. 400 residents of Shelby County are currently in shelters. On Sunday, officials went door to door to alert others that they may also need to leave their homes. The mayor of Memphis is confident that all those who need to escape the rising waters will be evacuated.
MAYOR AC WHARTON, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE: We'll get them out. Some are holding out to the last minute, but we think in the end they're going to come on out.
FIRFER: Officials say while there is great pressure on the levees around Memphis, they are currently performing as expected.
(END VIDEO)
Is This Legit?
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? The United States and China have the world's largest economies. Legit! That means these countries have a lot of influence when it comes to global finances.
Economic Talks
AZUZ: Well, the global economy is one of the big issues ahead as representatives from the U.S. and China meet in Washington this week. This is the third set of meetings between the two governments. Last week, one Chinese economic official said, "To be frank, we have different views that make discussion necessary." Some of those different views have to do with the economic policies of the U.S. and China. Since they're the world's biggest economies, what each country does -- its economic practices, the decisions it makes -- can have a pretty big impact on the other nation. Some other subjects are likely to come up during the meetings. That includes human rights, concerns about North Korea's nuclear program, and the U.S. and China working together to fight terrorism.
Reactors
AZUZ: Moving to Japan, where officials are shutting down a nuclear power plant. Not the Fukushima Daiichi plant, the one we've talked about since Japan's earthquake and tsunami in March. No, the one we're talking about today is the Hamaoka plant. The owner announced it's being shut down after Japan's prime minister warned that Hamaoka was vulnerable to natural disasters, like the ones that damaged the Fukushima plant. Hamaoka's owner says safety is his company's first priority. Meanwhile, workers went back inside one of the reactors at the Fukushima plant yesterday. They were checking on a ventilation system that was installed last week. The system is filtering out radioactive substances so that engineers can go in and shut down the reactor.
Shoutout
MATT CHERRY, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Miss Abromitis' class at the Sarah Rawson Smith School in Atlanta, Georgia! What is the scientific name for a fear of heights? Here we go! Is it: A) Agoraphobia, B) Aurophobia, C) Acrophobia or D) Arachnophobia? You've got three seconds -- GO! Fear of heights is acrophobia, from the root word acro, which means height. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Gamma Phi Circus
AZUZ: That's also where we get the word acrobat, like tightrope walkers and trapeze artists; the kind of folks you'd see in a circus. Ted Rowlands visited a school in Illinois where students can train to be part of the show. It's not clown college. It's a regular university where the person sitting next to you in Chemistry 101 could be double-majoring in Circus Studies.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is our identity going to become more external than it has been internal?
TED ROWLANDS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Sarah Bowden is a sophomore at Illinois State University.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Boys and girls, children of all ages.
ROWLANDS: She is also a circus performer. Sarah is part of Illinois State's Gamma Phi Circus, a school-sponsored circus team that dates back to 1929. It's the oldest of two college circus programs in the country; the other is at Florida State.
SARAH BOWDEN, CIRCUS PERFORMER, ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY STUDENT: So, this is the basic way to get up into the lyric hoop.
ROWLANDS: Sarah was a gymnast in high school, but like most of her teammates had no circus experience.
What do your parents think of all this?
BOWDEN: My parents are really supportive. You know, the minute I joined the circus, they're like, "What, you joined the circus?"
MARCUS ALOUAN, CIRCUS DIRECTOR, ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY: I think any one of us who has ever come through Gamma Phi Circus has had that conversation with their parents where they're trying to explain that it's still a part of the university, but it's something in addition to going to classes.
ROWLANDS: Marcus Alouan, a former student at Illinois State and circus performer, is now the director of the circus program.
ALOUAN: For the most part, we look for somebody who's strong, hardworking and coachable.
ROWLANDS: And doesn't have a fear of heights?
ALOUAN: That certainly helps. Although, actually, we have a lot of people who seek us out because they want to overcome that.
ROWLANDS: Senior Nena Woo, who broke her arm in a trapeze fall, says after graduating, she wants to join a professional circus.
NENA WOO, CIRCUS PERFORMER, ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY STUDENT: I'm graduating with a degree in public relations. If I can do that with a circus company or somewhere in entertainment, I'd love to do that.
ROWLANDS: The circus team has about 75 members. They don't compete, but they do perform every spring. Dating back more than 80 years, Gamma Phi Circus puts on a series of shows at the university. This was Sarah's first performance.
BOWDEN: Not in a million years did I think I'd be in a circus. So, I am so happy that I did it, though.
ROWLANDS: Ted Rowlands, CNN, Normal, Illinois.
(END VIDEO)
Blog Report
AZUZ: A school without grade levels: We talked about this last Wednesday. You're talking about it right now! Alexis starts us off: "It would help with discipline problems, but with everybody working at their own pace, some students won't get the push they need." Avery is home schooled, but thinks students shouldn't be grouped by age but by knowledge. "Some students in a class grouped by age may be behind or ahead and thus ignored." Clive says it could be a good idea. "Teachers won't have to worry about leaving students behind who struggle or giving students who are ahead lessons on what they already know." From Meg: "A big part of school is the social part. All kids deserve to be with kids who are going through the same things." Celeste writes, "students who usually get caught behind will have a better chance to truly learn the material rather than sit in a class they don't understand." But Alex argues, "It could make kids feel like they aren't as smart as their classmates, which would degrade their work. Some might get picked on because they aren't at the same level."
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go, we want to show you some baby pictures. Never said they were gonna be human. This mini-me here is the newest addition to a safari park in Florida. Her name is Laini, and she's a southern white rhinoceros. It's usually not polite to talk about a lady's weight, but Laini -- who's less than two weeks old -- already weighs 50 pounds! One thing's for sure: she does not have a dry wit, or any kind of a sense of humor, really.
Goodbye
AZUZ: You can go ahead and ask her. Are you wry? No, serious. Rhi-no-cerus. It wasn't our best pun, but will it be our last? Rhi-no, no it won't. I'm Carl Azuz, and CNN Student News will be herding back your way tomorrow.
