The wait is over for Caroline Wozniacki. The Dane has collected her first title of 2013 in Luxembourg.
The 23-year-old eased to a 6-2 6-2 win over German Annika Beck to notch up her 21st career win.
Her boyfriend Rory McIlroy, who had finished his day joint second at golf's Korea Open, posted his congratulations on Twitter.
But in Luxembourg, Wozniacki had a special thank you reserved for her four legged friend.
"Thank you to all the fans who came out all week," the world No. 9 said. "This is a great event - we all love playing here.
"I also want to thank my dad, and my mom who's back at the hotel with little Bruno, who's my dog!"
Wozniacki now heads to the season ending championship in Istanbul as the first reserve.
She and American Sloane Stephens, who is the second alternate, can expect to be called up if any of the eight qualified players pull out of the tournament.
For now, the former world No. 1 was pleased to notch up her first win in a season where she has struggled to find consistent form.
"Twenty-first title, it's great," Wozniacki added. "I'm still young - I have a few more years to go - so to be at 21 already is just great. This is what you practice for, so to win is an amazing feeling."
Debut win for Dimitrov
There was a breakthrough win for Bulgarian Grigor Dimitrov at the Stockholm Open.
The 22-year-old, who dates four time grand slam winner Maria Sharapova, came back from one set down to stun world No.3 David Ferrer and wrap up a 2-6 6-3 6-4 win.
"It's one of my biggest wins," said Dimitrov as he celebrated his first ATP World Tour title.
"To beat a top guy in a final, it's a great feeling and it's good for your mental state.
"You know you can hang with these guys and the next time you play against them, especially in the grand slams, you will be better prepared."
The Stockholm title also earned Dimitrov $131,000 and saw him rise to a career high ranking of 22.
Race to London
In Austria, Tommy Haas saw off his namesake Robin Haase 6-3 4-6 6-4 to lift the Erste Bank Open trophy.
It was the 35-year-old German's 15th career and comes 12 years after he won his first title in Vienna.
Haas, the world No.12, has a very slim chance of reaching next month's season-ending finale in London.
Only the top eight singles players will compete for the World Tour title, although with Andy Murray out of the running because of back surgery there is an extra place up for grabs.
Richard Gasquet put himself in the hot seat as victory in Moscow moved the Frenchman to No.9 in the race to London.
Gasquet defeated Kazakhstan's Mikhail Kukushkin 4-6 6-4 6-4 in the Kremlin Cup final.
"I'll try my best to qualify," said Gasquet, who has not played in the season finale since 2007.
"Two big tournaments are coming up. I'll try my best. I was close to losing today. But I fought a lot.
"It's important for me to qualify but the title here is important for me because my opponent played very well."
