French swimmer Yannick Agnel won his second gold of a triumphant Olympics with a dominant performance in Monday's 200 meters freestyle final.
South Korean swimmer Tae-Hwan Park and Yang Sun, of China, share silver after both finishing with a time of 1 minute 44.93 seconds.
American medal hope Ryan Lochte struggled to keep up with his rivals as he finished fourth.
"Not so happy about that swim tonight... you live and learn. Tomorrow I will be better," Lochte tweeted.
French President Francois Holland was in the crowd to see Agnel recorded the fastest time ever by a Frenchman, as Agnel demolished a strong field. Park, Sun, Agnel and Lochte had already won medals in London.
The cheering Holland enjoyed his compatriot Agnel repeat his performance from the 4x100m relay, where he surged past Lochte in the final leg to claim gold, to claim another French swimming gold.
With three gold medals, the French are now one short of their swimming gold medal total from all previous Olympics.
The U.S. did enjoy some success in the pool later, with two consecutive gold medals ensuring they ended the day second in the medal table.
Seventeen year old Missy Franklin claimed her first ever gold medal in the 100 meters backstroke, barely twenty minutes after competing in the 200 meter freestyle semi-finals.
Australian Emily Seebohm won silver, with Aya Terakawa taking bronze for Japan.
Matt Grevers, the six foot eight inch American, set a new Olympic record to claim the men's 100 meter backstroke title.
Nick Thoman made it an American one-two, with Ryosuke Irie claiming another bronze for Japan.
In the 100 meter breaststroke final, fifteen year-old Lithuanian Ruta Meilutyte edged out American world champions Rebecca Soni by eight-hundredths of a second to win Lithuania's first ever swimming gold.
"I tried to retain my speed with a little sprint over the last 50. I'm really happy it worked."
"I guess sometimes you win, sometimes you lose," Lochte told the Canadian Broadcasting Company.
"There's no doubt about it. Agnel's quick and he showed it last night and tonight. I'm happy for him."
