Brazilian star Kaka expects to be joined by fellow world 'Galacticos' as Real Madrid president Florentino Perez constructs a Spanish Primera Liga side that he hopes will rule supreme.
Brazilian superstar Kaka expects to the first of several 'Galaticos' joining Spanish giants Real Madrid.
World Player of the Year Cristiano Ronaldo would join $100 million signing Kaka at the Bernabeu tomorrow if Perez had his way. So, too, would the likes of Zlatan Ibrahimovic and David Villa.
"Real Madrid intend to build a great team, along with historic players such as Raul and Casillas," said Kaka. "We will make history again, both in Spain and Europe. I guess the sporting project is very good. The world's 20 most wanted footballers.
"The president is already making contact (with potential signings) and is putting together a competitive team, one which will try to once again become champions. That's why I chose Madrid."
Perez wants Real to rediscover the flair, verve and artistry that once made them the most celebrated club in world football.
He recently returned for a second spell as president and the arrival of midfielder Kaka confirmed that he will again pursue the policy that snared the likes of Luis Figo, Zinedine Zidane, Ronaldo and David Beckham.
Manchester United forward Ronaldo clearly tops the wanted list and according to PA Sport Perez told Onda Cero and Radio Marca: "I will do everything possible to get Cristiano Ronaldo at Real Madrid. Kaka is the first signing."
Quizzed about reports that United have allowed Ronaldo to sign a pre-contract with Madrid, he added: "I have read about this but I have been at this club a week and not seen anything about this."
He added: "What I want the most is to keep good relationships with other clubs. The only thing I have done is ensure we follow the path Santiago Bernabeu marked out for us; (signing) the best players in the world (Alfredo Di Stefano), the best in Spain (Amancio) and, with them, the best from the youth set-up (Raul)."
Indications are it will be a summer of change at Madrid with nine players likely to be on their way out. "(The squad) has 28 players. We can bring in six new and only register 25," he said.
Perez, meanwhile, told Sky Italia: "We are always thinking about great players. Cristiano Ronaldo and Zlatan Ibrahimovic are among other great players around the world. All the latest transfer gossip and speculation.
"We all know that these are players that we would like to buy but they can't all come."
The comments will not be too well received at United's Old Trafford and Perez insisted any move for Ronaldo would be done via the right channels.
"Ronaldo is a great player who we would like to bring to the club, but first we have to speak to Manchester United because the important thing is for us to maintain a good rapport with everyone," he said.
Inter Milan striker Ibrahimovic is another target, although Madrid may have to compete with arch rivals Barcelona for the Sweden international, while Villa has also been earmarked.
Spanish daily Marca claim Perez has an agreement in place with Villa's club Valencia, whose financial position means they are unlikely to reject an offer which comes close to their valuation.
