(CNN)  -- World number one Rafael Nadal and defending champion Andy Murray were both knocked out as the upsets continued in the ATP tournament at Queen's Club on Friday.
Murray was the first top go, beaten 4-6 6-1 7-6 by Mardy Fish of the United States in their third round match delayed overnight.
Nadal quickly followed as he went down in straight sets 7-6 6-4 to his fellow Spaniard Feliciano Lopez in their quarterfinal clash.
Nadal, fresh from his French Open triumph, was looking for valuable match practice on grass, but a mistake putting away a simple overhead put him under pressure in the first set tiebreak.
Lopez took advantage of the second of two set points and a single break was enough to give him victory in the second set.
Lopez, who was beating Nadal for the second time in seven matches, netted on his first match point but wrapped it up on the next.
Nadal had been the last remaining leading name in the pre-Wimbledon grasscourt tournament, which has seen the top five seeds go out.
Four-time Queen's champion Andy Roddick and Novak Djokovic were casualties on Thursday and Murray came close to joining them as he trailed 3-0 in the deciding set to Fish before recovering to tie it up at 3-3.
Angry exchanges followed as Fish walked off claiming the light was too poor to continue, while Murray, with momentum behind him, wanted to continue.
When they resumed on Friday, both men easily held their services as the match went into a deciding tiebreak at 6-6.
Murray gained the early mini-break with a superb forehand passing shot, but then Fish, coming to the net whenever possible, took command.
He quickly set up four match points and claimed victory and a place in the quarterfinals as Murray hit a backhand long.
Fish later beat Michael Llodra of France 6-4 6-4 in their quarterfinal match to reach the last four.
Dudi Sela's run came to an end as the 14th-seeded Israeli, who had beaten Roddick on Thursday, lost 7-5 6-4 to Rainer Schuettler of Germany.
Sam Querrey of the United States continued his impressive passage by beating Belgian Xavier Malisse 6-3 7-5.
Meanwhile, Roger Federer stepped up his bid for a sixth title in Halle, Germany with a 7-5 6-3 quarterfinal win over home hope Philipp Kohlschreiber.
Former world number one Lleyton Hewitt also went through with a victory over  Andreas Beck of Germany 7-6 6-1. He will play Benjamin Becker in the semis with Federer taking on Philipp Petzschner.
