(CNN)Winter will end. The sun will shine again.
But if you can't stand another day of toe-numbing temperatures, start thinking about an escape to one of TripAdvisor's picks for the world's best beaches.
The travel site announced 332 winners of its annual Travelers' Choice awards for beaches Wednesday.
The awards are based on the quantity and quality of traveler reviews for beaches gathered over 12 months. In addition to a global winners list, top beaches are listed by regions and countries, including lists for Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, Europe, South America, the South Pacific, the United Kingdom and the United States.
The world's best beach? That would be Baia do Sancho on the Brazilian island of Fernando de Noronha. For the second year in a row, the golden crescent hugged by rocky cliffs has earned the No. 1 spot on the global list.
Grace Bay in Providenciales, Turks and Caicos, has also retained its ranking as the No. 2 Travelers' Choice beach in the world.
Here are TripAdvisor's top 10 beaches in the world:
1. Baia do Sancho, Fernando de Noronha, Brazil
2. Grace Bay, Providenciales, Turks and Caicos
3. Rabbit Beach, Lampedusa, Italy
4. Playa Paraiso Beach, Cayo Largo, Cuba
5. Playa de Ses Illetes, Formentera, Spain
6. Anse Lazio, Praslin Island, Seychelles
7. White Beach, Boracay, Philippines
8. Flamenco Beach, Culebra, Puerto Rico
9. Whitehaven Beach, Whitsunday Islands, Australia
10. Elafonissi Beach, Elafonissi, Crete, Greece
TripAdvisor offers booking and rate comparisons at hotels and resorts in each location.
World's most spectacular cliffside beaches
On the Travelers' Choice list for the United States, Florida made huge gains on Hawaii this year. According to TripAdvisor search traffic, interest in top 10-ranked Florida beaches is up on average 69% year-over-year.
Last year's list featured Hawaiian beaches in seven of the top 10 spots, with only two Florida beaches listed in the top 10. This year, six Florida beaches ranked in the top 10, with only three in Hawaii.
This year's No. 1 U.S. beach, Siesta Beach in Siesta Key, Florida, edged out last year's top ranked Lanikai Beach in Kailua, Hawaii.
Here are 2015's top 10 U.S. beaches:
1. Siesta Beach, Siesta Key, Florida
2. St. Pete Beach, St. Petersburg, Florida
3. Ka'anapali Beach, Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii
4. Wai'anapanapa State Park, Hana, Maui, Hawaii
5. Pensacola Beach, Pensacola Beach, Florida
6. La Jolla Cove, La Jolla, California
7. Kailua Beach Park, Kailua, Oahu, Hawaii
8. Clearwater Beach, Clearwater, Florida
9. St. Augustine Beach, St. Augustine, Florida
10. Beach at Panama City, Panama City Beach, Florida
