State investigators concluded there were "no safety threats" at the home of a 10-year-old girl two days before she was found dead in her adoptive father's pick-up truck near her seriously ill twin brother, according to a report released Monday by Florida child welfare authorities.
Both of the twins' adoptive parents -- mother Carmen Barahona and father Jorge Barahona -- are charged with first-degree murder in the girl's death. They also each face seven counts of aggravated child abuse and seven counts of child neglect, with the mother being so charged Saturday and the father charged on all the counts Monday.
James Loftus, director of the Miami-Dade Police Department, told reporters Monday that the girl died and the boy was found only after an extended period of "systemic long-term abuse."
"This is, in my experience, one of the saddest commentaries on the human condition that I've ever seen," Loftus said, calling the parents' alleged behavior "subhuman." "It's depressing, it's sickening."
Jorge Barahona earlier pleaded not guilty on charges of attempted first-degree murder with a weapon and aggravated child abuse with a weapon in the case.
Days before the twins were found, the Florida Department of Children and Families received tips alleging poor treatment of children at the Barahona household in Miami-Dade County. Records indicate a 7-year-old also lived in the home.
One caller on February 10 claimed that the 10-year-old girl and another child had been "tied by their hands and feet with tape, and made to stay in the bathtub all day and night as a form of punishment," with the tape removed only so they could eat, according to a copy of the report released Monday.
Then, on February 12, authorities began looking into another claim that one of the Barahonas' children needed stitches after being hurt on the face and lip.
Carmen Barahona applied a bandage but didn't take the child to the hospital. The mother said the child fell -- though the report notes that "the injury is not consistent with the story."
Investigators went to the home and late that night filed a report, in which they did not find any reasons for concern for the children's well-being.
"There is no reason to believe that the family is about to flee or refuse access to the children," investigator Bridget Moore said in the "initial in home safety assessment" report. "The home was observed, and there were no hazardous conditions."
The report concluded with an assessment that the risk to the children was "moderate," with no risk of abuse.
"There are no concerns for the safety of the children while in the care of the parents," the investigator writes.
Two days later, on February 14, authorities say Jorge Barahona parked his pest-control truck alongside I-95. A roadside ranger said he found Barahona beside the truck and his adopted son ill inside the vehicle, which was filled with toxic chemicals. The boy was taken to a hospital to be treated for severe burns.
The body of the Barahonas' adopted daughter, Nubia -- who was the boy's twin sister -- was later discovered in the back of the truck in a plastic bag.
The Florida Department of Children and Families held its fourth of five scheduled meetings Monday afternoon to examine how authorities had handled the case.
In one instance, a caller told Florida authorities that he knew the Barahonas, and he was worried about the couple's twins. The contents of that phone call, which was made two days before the twins were found, was released last  week by the department.
The caller said he was worried that something sinister had happened to the 10-year-old girl because the Barahonas could not explain where the girl was.
"(Jorge Barahona) doesn't come out with a straight answer, which is worrying me so much that something might have happened to that little girl," said the caller, who was not named.
During Monday's press conference, Katherine Fernandez Rundle -- the state attorney for Miami-Dade -- said the surviving children in the Barahonas' home "clearly are key witnesses" in the case, describing their cooperation with investigators thus far as "very courageous."
Rundle said a decision hasn't been made yet on whether prosecutors would seek a death sentence in this case, though she signalled that this scenario appeared likely.
"If there ever was a case that the death penalty would apply, it would seem to apply to this one," she said.
