Police searching Justin Bieber's limo found illegal drugs and paraphernalia Tuesday, a police report said.
"Less than an ounce of suspected marijuana and two large glass smoking pipes containing suspected marijuana residue were found inside the vehicle," the investigation report by a Sandy Springs, Georgia, police officer said.
Police said they searched his Cadillac Escalade on Tuesday evening after they found a camera inside that a photographer claimed was taken from him by Bieber's bodyguard, the report said.
Justin Bieber's security guard and driver arrested
"Due to the small amount, no charges were filed related to the marijuana," a police statement said.
A representative for Bieber declined to comment about the police report or the arrest of Bieber's bodyguard, Hugo Hesny, on a felony theft charge.
The Atlanta incident interrupted a relative calm three weeks in Georgia for the teen pop idol, who tweeted Tuesday that he was "focused on the music."  He also tweeted "i love GA."
In contrast, Bieber's January was a whirlwind of controversy that included a DUI arrest in Miami, an assault charge in Toronto and a felony vandalism probe in Los Angeles.
The People v. Justin Bieber: The singer's court cases
Jail video: Bieber off balance?
Video of Bieber undergoing a sobriety test inside a Miami Beach police station on January 23 was released to the media Wednesday.  He appeared unsteady at times as he walked along a white stripe on the floor.
Bieber failed a series of sobriety tests, including "horizontal gaze," "Romberg balance," "walk and turn," "finger to nose" and "one-leg stand" tests, the Miami Beach police report said.
The preliminary toxicology report on Bieber's urine sample said it tested positive for "metabolite of THC," which indicates marijuana use, and alprazolam, the generic name for the prescription sedative Xanax.
Bieber's Southern hideout?
The aggressive paparazzi who routinely tail celebrities in Los Angeles have sometimes clashed with Bieber.
The singer has been ticketed for speeding, which he blamed on his being chased by photographers. He was investigated but not charged two years ago after a photographer accused him of assault after a confrontation in Calabasas, California, where Bieber owns a mansion.
Although a hip-hop recording center, Atlanta lacks the robust hoard of photographers that stakes out all corners of Hollywood. But Jason Winslow, a Miami-based photographer who sells his images through the Splash photo agency, traveled to Atlanta to cover Bieber.
Winslow told police he was parked outside the Sandy Springs Funhouse, a north Atlanta "family fun center," waiting for Bieber to emerge Tuesday afternoon when Hesny told him to leave.
"He continued to take pictures from further away," Officer K.D. Sawtell wrote.  "Eventually, that same person chased him down in a Cadillac Escalade as Winslow fled in his Chevy SUV."
Hesny, 32, admitted to police that he opened Winslow's car door and took the camera, but he said had no intentions of keeping it, the arresting officer said.  He told police "he just wanted to delete the pictures from the camera."
He tossed the camera in the back of another Bieber SUV and then drove away, he told police. Winslow's Nikon camera, which he valued at $10,000, was found when police stopped the other Escalade.  It was in that vehicle where the drugs were found, the police report said.
The driver, who was arrested but later released without charges, told police that he was just a driver and knew not to ask his client questions, the arrest report said.
Winslow did not respond to CNN calls for comment on the case.
The arrest of his bodyguard doesn't seem to have dampened Bieber's spirits. He posted on his Instagram account a photo of a panda at Zoo Atlanta with the caption "My bro" early Wednesday.  Bieber also noted via Twitter that his 20th birthday is just days away -- Saturday.
"I love sleep," the singer tweeted Wednesday afternoon.
