Manchester United claimed a controversial 2-0 victory at home to Tottenham on Saturday night to keep up the pressure on English Premier League leaders Chelsea.
United stayed within five points of the defending champions, who came from behind to beat Blackburn 2-1 earlier in the day, following a bizarre incident late in the match at Old Trafford.
Nani was allowed to put the ball into the Tottenham net while goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes was trying to take a free-kick, after the Portugal midfielder handled when he went down having vainly claimed a penalty.
The linesman instantly flagged, but referee Mark Clattenburg over-ruled him and awarded United a second goal to the fury of the visiting team -- who have been on the wrong side of several controversial decisions at Old Trafford in the past decade.
United boss Alex Ferguson said Nani had correctly played to the whistle.
"Nani looked back and looked at the referee, and the referee said play on, so what can he do but put the ball in the net," Ferguson said.
"You can look at the referee and look at the linesmen and blame them, but the goalkeeper should know better. He's an experienced goalkeeper. I thought he made a mess of it.
"I thought it was a penalty first of all and I think Nani felt he handled the ball. But the referee didn't blow for it."
Fifth-placed Tottenham extended their historically dreadful run at United's home ground to 21 years without a victory, but had been in the match until the 84th-minute incident.
Park Ji-Sung hit the base of the Spurs post in the eighth minute, but Dutch midfielder Rafael van der Vaart rattled his compatriot Edwin van der Sar's woodwork with an even more spectacular effort just after the half-hour mark -- a day after the goalkeeper's 40th birthday.
United took the lead five minutes later as Tottenham paid for poor defending, with Serbia center-back Nemanja Vidic stealing in unmarked to head home Nani's curling free-kick.
Van der Sar then did well to keep out a fierce shot from Luka Modric, but Tottenham lacked the potency to equalize despite their smooth passing game, with boss Harry Redknapp bringing on Roman Pavlyuchenko and Peter Crouch to replace Robbie Keane and Van der Vaart.
Chelsea, still missing injured England midfielder Frank Lampard, needed an 84th-minute winner from Branislav Ivanovic to see off Blackburn, who earlier in the week announced the club is poised to be the first in the Premier League to have Indian owners.
Zimbabwean striker Benjani Mwaruwari had headed a 21st-minute opener for his first goal for Rovers, from El-Hadji Diouf's cross, but former France striker Nicolas Anelka leveled three minutes before the break after Didier Drogba nodded down Florent Malouda's cross.
Blackburn could have led again in the 81st minute but striker Jason Roberts missed a golden chance, and the Londoners immediately pounced for the winner as Serbian defender Ivanovic headed home Yuri Zhirkov's cross.
"Blackburn could have scored before our goal and we were a little bit lucky," Chelsea coach Carlo Ancelotti told reporters.
"To win here was important because they were better. We were not great again. Blackburn put us under some pressure and we were not able to play our football."
Arsenal claimed second place on goal difference above Manchester United after snatching victory at home to bottom club West Ham, with Alex Song heading a late winner following an end-to-end London derby.
France midfielder Samir Nasri hit the crossbar with a long-range free-kick and England winger Theo Walcott struck the post after coming on as a substitute, while former England goalkeeper Robert Green kept the visitors in the game with a series of fine saves.
But Cameroon international Song finally broke the deadlock with two minutes to play with a diving effort from fullback Gael Clichy's cross.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger told reporters that captain Cesc Fabregas should be available for Wednesday's Champions League trip to Ukraine's Shakhtar Donetsk despite suffering a hamstring twinge.
However, Manchester City's hopes of a first league crown since 1968 were dented by a second successive defeat, this time at lowly Wolverhampton, which left the club eight points behind Chelsea.
Beaten 3-0 by Arsenal last weekend, City went ahead in the 23rd minute with a penalty from Emmanuel Adebayor -- who was partnered up front by Mario Balotelli in the absence of injured captain Carlos Tevez.
But Serbia midfielder Nenad Milijas equalized on half an hour and David Edwards -- who headed against the post in the first period -- gave Wolves a first win since the opening day of the season with a 57th-minute strike.
But Wolves remained second from bottom on goal difference below Liverpool, who travel to Bolton Sunday.
Everton moved up to seventh place with a 1-0 win at home to Stoke City, with Nigeria striker Yakubu scoring his first goal since April in the 67th minute.
Fulham climbed to eighth with a 2-0 victory against Wigan, with U.S. international Clint Dempsey netting both goals in the first half for the home side.
