Jose Mourinho likes to keep them guessing.
Three days after the Real Madrid manager hinted he was on his way back to England and Chelsea, the self-proclaimed "Special One" insisted his future was still undecided.
Mourinho signed a contract extension until 2016 with Real Madrid last May after ending Barcelona's three-year stranglehold on La Liga, but his relationship with the Spanish press soured and he has clashed with Madrid and Spain's much-loved keeper, Iker Casillas.
"When I decide on my future, my wife and kids will be the first to know, then the president and general director," Mourinho told reporters ahead of Real Madrid's game against Real Valladolid. "I haven't decided to leave. If I go, I will not give explanations."
Despite Mourinho's pronouncement Friday, England's Sun newspaper claimed that he has already agreed to return to Chelsea but that an official announcement was unlikely until July 1.
On Tuesday following Real Madrid's exit in the Champions League semifinals for a third straight season under Mourinho, this time to Borussia Dortmund, the 50-year-old, not for the first time, spoke of his deep fondness for England.
"I know in England I am loved," Mourinho said. "I know. I know I am loved by the fans. I am loved by the media that treats me in a fair way, criticizing me when they have to, but giving me credit when I deserve it. I know I am loved by some clubs, especially one."
Tottenham boss Andre Villas-Boas, who worked under his fellow Portuguese and formerly managed Chelsea, said Mourinho resurfacing in the Premier League would be "spectacular." With Mourinho at the helm, Chelsea ended a 50-year title drought and won back-to-back Premier League titles.
He parted company with Chelsea in 2007 when his relationship with Russian owner Roman Abramovich deteriorated.
Even though the Blues won the Champions League in 2012, they finished sixth in the league, failed to advance from this season's group stage and are in danger of not qualifying for the competition next term. Current interim manager Rafael Benitez has already stated he won't be with Chelsea in 2013/2014.
"I have always left clubs in the right way," Mourinho added Friday. "Even Chelsea, which seemed controversial, wasn't so much. When I go I never say anything negative about those clubs, quite the opposite. The day I go I will be wishing Madrid the best for the future.
"Clubs always stay with me. Chelsea did not win the European Cup with me but I was just as pleased when they won it. Madrid will always be special and I want them to win their 10th European Cup. If that's with me, fine. If not, I will enjoy it as much."
He said his past successes -- which include capturing titles in four countries, the Champions League with Inter Milan and steering Madrid to a record points total last season -- have hurt him in the Spanish capital.
Once he ended Barcelona's reign in La Liga in 2012, the goal with Real Madrid was to win the Champions League, which hasn't materialized. Madrid's title drought in the Champions League now extends to 11 years.
"It is my fault," Mourinho said. "I have won so, so, so much that it is hard to live up to those expectations. But the points record in the league is mine and no one can take that away."
In a move sure not to boost his popularity in Spain, Mourinho took a swipe at Casillas, who hasn't reclaimed his position as Madrid's No. 1 from Diego Lopez after recovering from a hand injury.
"I should have been more proactive at the end of the first season, more demanding and more insistent," Mourinho said. "We should have brought in Diego Lopez then. I asked but he didn't come. I didn't do enough to bring him in and that's a pity."
