World No. 2 Roger Federer will seek to win just his third title this year when he takes on German Florian Mayer in Sunday's final of the Stockholm Open.
The top seed, playing the Swedish event for the first time since his debut there 10 years ago, was tested for the second match in a row as he overcame Ivan Ljubicic 7-6 (7-5) 6-2 in Saturday's semifinals.
Federer, who was taken to three sets by fellow Swiss Stanislas Wawrinka on Friday, faced again losing the opener but broke the Croatian fourth seed's serve at 5-4 down.
The 29-year-old then won five successive games from 2-1 down in the second set to give himself a chance of adding to his 2010 Australian Open and Cincinnati Masters crowns and 63 career titles.
"I'd love to win, I've never won a title in Sweden. That would be something special. But it's good to win one in any case. It's a good feeling to walk off court as a winner," the 16-time Grand Slam champion told reporters.
Federer lost to Andy Murray in the final of his last event, the Shanghai Masters, and has only been successful in two of six title matches this year for a 51-12 winning record overall.
"I've had an amazing run in the past winning 24 straight finals. Maybe this can be the start of another streak," he said.
Mayer, who has lost both previous meetings with Federer, is seeking his first ATP Tour title following final losses in 2005 and 2006.
The world No. 47 followed up his surprise quarterfinal victory over second seed Robin Soderling with a hard-fought 4-6 6-4 7-6 (7-3) win against Finland's Jarkko Nieminen on Saturday.
"I have nothing to lose. I was a little tired today, physically and mentally," said the 27-year-old, who saved a match-point at 5-4 down in the final set before winning the tie-break.
Meanwhile, Soderling will join Federer, Murray, Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic in the end-of-season ATP World Tour Finals in London next month despite his defeat.
The Swede, a semifinalist in the season-ending event last year, has qualified for the fifth of eight places due to the schedule of draws made on Saturday for next week's tournaments in Vienna, St. Petersburg and Montpellier.
Last year's Stockholm champion Marcos Baghdatis reached the final of the Kremlin Cup on Saturday with a 6-4 6-7 (5-7) 7-6 (7-2) win over Uzbekistan's Denis Istomin.
The fourth-seeded Cypriot will face Viktor Troicki on Sunday after the Serbian world No. 43 earlier beat Uruguay's Pablo Cuevas 6-3 6-3 to reach the third final of his career, having lost his previous two.
In the women's event in Moscow, second seed Victoria Azarenka reached her fourth final of the year with a 6-3 6-3 win over Spanish No. 8 Maria Jose Martinez Sanchez.
The 21-year-old world No. 6 will take on sixth seed Maria Kirilenko, who thrashed fellow Russian Vera Dushevina 6-1 6-1.
In the WTA Tour's Luxembourg Open, German eighth seed Julia Gorges will face Italy's Roberta Vinci in Sunday's final.
Gorges beat compatriot Angelique Kerber 6-4 3-6 6-1, while Vinci ended the run of Britain's world No. 143 Anne Keothavong with a 6-4 6-2 victory.
