(CNN Student News) -- September 24, 2013
As world leaders gather in New York, CNN Student News defines the U.N. General Assembly, and we consider the possibility of a meeting between the U.S. and Iran. We also report on terrorist attacks in Africa and Asia, and we examine election results in Germany. Plus, we share some students' opinions on the issue of bringing guns into Starbucks.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What differences might there be in international and domestic news coverage of a country's election?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. United Nations General Assembly
2. religious minority
3. landslide victory
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. In what Middle Eastern nation were 52 Americans taken hostage in 1979?
2. In what kind of venue are Kenyan authorities investigating a terrorist attack?
3. Who was re-elected as chancellor of Germany?
Discussion Questions:
1. What might be the benefits and drawbacks of a massive assembly of world leaders? What subjects might come up? In your view, are the U.N. General Assembly's policies significant if they are not legally binding? Why or why not?
2. Why do you think that religious minorities are accepted in some regions but not in others? In places of religious intolerance, do you think steps can be taken to keep the peace? If so, what? If not, why not?
3. Do you think that the margin of victory, either by a landslide or a slight majority, has an impact on the way a national leader governs? How might the nation's citizens respond to each type of victory?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
New York City
Africa
Nairobi, Kenya
Asia
Peshawar, Pakistan
Europe
Germany
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
