(CNN Student News) -- October 15, 2013
With the debt ceiling deadline days away, leaders in Washington say they're optimistic about reaching a deal. We also discuss an infectious bacterium that appeared in an NFL locker room, and we explain the Muslim ritual of Hajj. Plus, we make a Career Connection with an opera singer, and a high school elects a king and queen that students say embody the spirit of homecoming.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What are the benefits and limitations of a news report about a medical issue? Where could you go to get more complete information?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
2. Hajj
3. supply and demand
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What's the status of the congressional debate over the debt ceiling? Who are some of the major players in this debate?
2. Why are there concerns over MRSA? What are some ways to prevent the spread of this bacterium?
3. What advice does opera singer Christian Figueroa have about a career in the arts?
Discussion Questions:
1. Do you think that both houses of Congress and President Obama will agree on a debt ceiling deal by October 17? Why or why not? What do you think are some of the challenges of reaching an agreement?
2. What do you think of fish farms as a solution to meeting the demand for fish? How might they compare and contrast with ocean fishing? What is your opinion of the fish farm described in the report?
3. In your view, what characteristics should a homecoming king or queen possess? What were your thoughts on the homecoming story in the program?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Washington, D.C.
Asia
Mecca, Saudi Arabia; Hong Kong
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
