(CNN Student News) -- August 19, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might it be important to update a news story months after the initial event? Why might an audience want to see such an update?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects from today's show:
1. natural disaster
2. instant replay
3. overcoming adversity
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What kind of natural disaster recently caused the evacuation of about 2,200 homes in Idaho?
2. How many full-time, female referees currently work in the National Football League?
3. What professional sports league is considering a significant expansion of instant replay?
Discussion Questions:
1. How might journalists covering an armed conflict determine the truth when each side in the conflict blames the other?
2. Why do you think few professional sports officials are women? How do you think that fans, players and other referees might react to more women in these roles? What is your opinion?
3. How does instant replay impact professional sports games? What are its pros and cons? What is your opinion of using instant replay in professional sports? What was your reaction to the feature story about the baseball announcer who has cerebral palsy?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
Egypt
North America
Idaho; Moore, Oklahoma
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
