Dan Marino, considered one of the greatest quarterbacks in National Football League history, is suing the NFL over concussions, according to court documents filed last week in Philadelphia.
Marino, a Hall of Famer who starred for the Miami Dolphins for 17 seasons, and 14 other former players filed a civil lawsuit in federal court that says the league knew for years there was a link between concussions and long-term health problems.
The document asks for monetary damages to be determined at a jury trial and for medical monitoring for the former players.
Each player submitted a short-form complaint that contained standard language that they suffer from brain injuries and exhibit symptoms that have developed over time.
Marino joining lawsuit changes everything
The document doesn't specify the nature of Marino's injuries.
The NFL didn't immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.
Marino, 52, was considered one of the most durable quarterbacks in the NFL and once started 99 games in a row. Known for a quick release, Marino still holds several NFL records. He was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2005.
Other former players involved in the suit are Richard Bishop, Ethan Johnson, Chris Dugan, Anthony Grant, Mark Green, LaCurtis Jones, John Huddleston, Erik Affholter, Toddrick McIntosh, Dwight Wheeler, Jackie Wallace, Moses Moreno, Peter Manning and Bruce Clark.
In a separate case in January, a federal judge declined  to approve a proposed $760 million settlement of claims arising from concussions suffered by NFL players, saying she didn't think it was enough money.
The estimated 20,000 class members over the settlement's 65-year lifespan would include former players with early dementia, moderate dementia, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotropic lateral sclerosis and/or death with a postmortem diagnosis of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a brain disorder.
Sol Weiss, one of the lawyers who filed the Marino group's lawsuit, is also one of the attorneys who settled the class action concussion case with the NFL.
White House to talk concussion prevention at summit
Head impact sensors: On-the-field placebo or danger?
Brett Favre: Memory lapse 'put a little fear in me'
