Mel Gibson and his ex-girlfriend, Oksana Grigorieva, agreed on something Monday: how to dress for battle.
The actor and the mother of his 1-year-old daughter, Lucia, both wore dark sunglasses, black business suits and emotionless expressions as they walked into a Los Angeles courtroom for a child custody hearing.
Since reporters were dismissed soon after Judge Scott Gordon called their case, it is unknown if the former couple agreed on anything else. It would be unexpected, judging from their split earlier this year.
Grigorieva was on the stand Monday morning, while her mother and the woman who works for Gibson as the baby's nanny were waiting to testify in the afternoon session.
Gibson and Grigorieva last met in the same courtroom on November 10 for a daylong hearing that included squabbles over attorneys' fees, child support and whether they should be allowed to talk freely to the media about the family law case.
Gordon stopped sort of imposing a gag order, but Gibson's lawyers have followed a self-imposed silence, citing routine confidentiality requirements in a family law case.
Grigorieva, a Russian musician, decided to talk publicly -- to CNN's Larry King -- about her claims of domestic violence by Gibson.
The public has already heard several recordings of angry Gibson phone calls to Grigorieva, but she told King she did not give them to celebrity news website Radaronline.
Details about the case have flowed at a steady pace on celebrity news website TMZ over the past two weeks. Hundreds of pages of sealed court documents were somehow leaked, including affidavits, deposition transcripts and dental records.
Even beyond the family law case, two related criminal investigations are under way.
The Los Angeles County district attorney is considering evidence gathered by sheriff's investigators to decide if a domestic violence case will be made against Gibson, according to a spokeswoman for the prosecutor.
Detectives are also investigating Gibson's charge that Grigorieva tried to extort him with phone recordings she made of his calls, a sheriff's spokesman said.
