The Los Angeles woman whom rapper 50 Cent is accused of kicking in a domestic violence incident is a model and an actress who had a part in a "Pirates of the Caribbean" film, her representative told CNN Friday.
Daphne Joy, who was born in the Philippines, has a baby by the rapper and is now focusing on safety for the child and herself, said Jim Yeager, a spokesman for the Los Angeles law firm of Meyer, Olson, Lowy & Meyers, which is representing her.
The alleged victim, whose name wasn't earlier disclosed by authorities, released her name Friday through Yeager.
Joy played a principal mermaid in 2011's "Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides." She's also had roles on TV's "CSI: Las Vegas," "Criminal Minds," "Curb Your Enthusiasm," and "Wild 'N Out," her website says.
50 Cent's real name is Curtis Jackson. The 37-year-old is facing one count of domestic violence and four counts of vandalism.
"Daphne Joy and Curtis Jackson have been together for a few years in an exclusive relationship," said a statement by the law firm. "They had a child and now Daphne's number one priority is to ensure both her and the baby's safety during this difficult time. We also hope everyone will respect her and the baby's privacy."
This week, however, Los Angeles City Attorney Mike Feuer's office described Joy as "a former girlfriend" of Curtis. The alleged victim "had previously been in a three-year relationship with Jackson," the city prosecutor's office said.
Jackson denies the allegations, said his attorney, Scott Leemon.
"It is important to note, Mr. Jackson has not been arrested and there is no warrant outstanding for his arrest," Leemon said. "We have been in contact with the LA City Attorney's Office and are currently conducting our own investigation into these allegations."
Jackson is accused of ransacking Joy's bedroom during an argument at her Los Angeles condo last month. Joy lives in the city's Toluca Lake neighborhood.
Joy alleges she was injured when Jackson kicked her on June 23, the city attorney said.
Authorities allege Jackson caused $7,100 in damaged property and left the scene before police arrived.
"During an argument, Jackson allegedly began destroying the female's property," the city prosecutor's office said in a written statement. "Allegedly when the female locked herself in her bedroom, Jackson kicked open the bedroom door and kicked her, causing an injury."
Police found broken chandeliers and furniture throughout the home. The bedroom closet was ransacked, with clothes thrown all over the floor, and there was a broken television and lamp, the prosecutor's office said.
Jackson's arraignment is set for July 22 at Van Nuys Superior Court.
If convicted on all five counts, he would face up to five years in jail and $46,000 in fines.
On Twitter, the rapper has appeared to give a lighthearted response to the accusations. On Friday, he shared a series of photos of himself lounging around with playful captions such as, "I'm not in jail I'm by my pool," and, "I'm not in jail I'm on my Gucci couch."
CNN's Alan Duke and Breeanna Hare contributed to this report.
