Michael Schumacher's manager has revealed that a journalist tried to sneak into the French hospital room where the Formula One superstar is being treated Tuesday.
The record-breaking German racer suffered severe head injuries after falling and hitting his head on a rock while skiing Sunday in the French Alpine resort of Meribel.
His manager Sabine Kehm confirmed to CNN that a member of the media had attempted to gain access to the room at the University Hospital Center of Grenoble disguised as a priest.
Doctors said Tuesday there was a "slight improvement in the German star's condition.
On Monday night, doctors carried out a surgical intervention on Schumacher that allowed for some pressure to be relieved on his brain.
Schumacher accident 'rare event'
There has been a global outpouring of support from the motorsport community and Schumacher's ardent global fanbase since news of his accident broke.
Outside the hospital, fans, some dressed in the scarlet colors of the Ferrari racing team, have placed flags bearing Ferrari's Prancing Horse emblem.
Schumacher won five successive world titles with the famous Italian marque between 2000 and 2005, to add to the back-to-back titles he won for Benetton in 1994 and 1995.
Michael Schumacher: Life in the fast lane
His family issued a statement Tuesday, saying: "Following Michael's skiing accident, we would like to thank the people from all around the world who have expressed their sympathy and sent their best wishes for his recovery. They are giving us great support. We all know he is a fighter and will not give up."
His wife Corinna and his two children are among the family at his bedside.
In a stellar first career, the 44-year-old won an overall record seven world titles and 91 grands prix.
He retired from the sport for a second time in 2012 after making a largely uncompetitive return to the F1 grid with Mercedes in 2010.
Since his retirement, Schumacher had been working as an ambassador for the German car giant but said earlier this month that he had been enjoying spending time with his family and mentoring the next generation of go-kart racers.
