Steven Spielberg's political drama "Lincoln" on Wednesday led the field with 10 Bafta nominations, along with Tom Hooper's film version of the long-running stage musical "Les Miserables" and Ang Lee's "Life of Pi," which both have nine nods.
The three are in the running for best film in the British movie awards, along with "Argo," (seven nominations) a thriller set during the Iran hostage crisis, and "Zero Dark Thirty," (five nods) directed by Katheryn Bigelow -- the only woman to win a best director Oscar -- about the hunt for Osama bin Laden.
Daniel Day-Lewis is nominated for best actor for his role as the U.S. president who led his country during the civil war and worked to end slavery.
Read how 'Lincoln' distorts history
Day-Lewis is up against "Argo" star Ben Affleck, "Les Miserables" co-star Hugh Jackman, Bradley Cooper for "Silver Linings Playbook" and Joaquin Phoenix for "The Master."
Oscar winner Helen Mirren is recognized in the best actress category for her role in "Hitchcock," playing the wife of the British suspense filmmaker.
Mirren is joined by "Amour" star Emmanuelle Riva, Jennifer Lawrence for "Silver Linings Playbook," "Rust and Bone" star Marion Cotillard and Jessica Chastain for "Zero Dark Thirty."
Quentin Tarantino is nominated for best director and original screenplay for his slavery action-drama "Django Unchained." Affleck is also recognized for directing "Argo," along with Bigelow, Lee and "Amour" director Michael Haneke.
Read why 'Django Unchained' stirs race debate
Javier Bardem was nominated as best supporting actor for his role as the villain in the latest and most commercially successful James Bond movie, "Skyfall," but that film was overlooked in the best film category.
Bardem was among eight "Skyfall" nominations that also included best supporting actress for Judi Dench, who plays spy boss M, and best British movie.
The BAFTA awards ceremony will take place on February 10 at the Royal Opera House in London. The nominations are viewed as one of the indicators for success in the Oscars, which will be announced Thursday. Golden Globe winners will be announced on Sunday.
