World number three Kim Clijsters eased past Russia's Dinara Safina with a 6-0 6-0 victory in the first round of the Australian Open on Tuesday.
Safina, a finalist at this event in 2009 and a former world number one, lasted only 44 minutes against Belgium's Clijsters and lost without winning a game for the first time in her career.
"I didn't know how to win a point, embarrassing," the 23-year-old, now ranked 75th, told the WTA Tour's website.
"I was looking forward to this match. We've played many times. I wanted to go out there and play my game and see what happened. But today she was just cruising and cruising. It hurts."
The Australian Open should be in February!
Clijsters, a three-time U.S. Open champion, said her opponent displayed a lack of confidence during their match.
"She didn't get to number one just by luck," the third seed for the Melbourne tournament said after setting up a clash with Spanish world No. 62 Carla Suarez Navarro.
"The game is still there. She just has to win a few matches, a few tough matches then build some more confidence."
Second seed Vera Zvonareva also scored a straight-sets win with a 6-2 6-1 success over Austria's Sybille Bammer at the Rod Laver Arena.
The 26-year-old reached two grand slam finals in 2010, but is yet to claim a major title.
"It's nice to start your grand slam like that," Russia's Zvonareva said. "It's always difficult to play your best tennis in your first match, but I did what I needed to win."
Zvonareva will now play Bojana Jovanovski after the Serbian triumphed 7-5 6-1 against Kai-Chen Chang of Chinese Taipei.
There was joy for the home crowd when Australian fifth seed Samantha Stosur advanced thanks to a 6-1 6-1 victory against American wildcard Lauren Davis.
Stosur, 26, wrapped up the match in 53 minutes and she will now play Vera Dushevina of Russia.
Dushevina defeated Italy's Maria Elena Camerin to move into the second round at Melbourne Park.
Serbia's Ana Ivanovic suffered a first-round exit after the 19th seed lost to Russia's 49th-ranked Ekaterina Makarova in a match which lasted two hours and 37 minutes.
The 23-year-old, who won the French Open in 2008, held a 3-1 lead in the third and deciding set but eventually slipped to a 3-6 6-4 10-8 defeat.
Makarova will meet the Ukraine's Lesya Tsurenko in round two, after she overcame Patty Schnyder of Switzerland 6-2 6-3.
