(CNN Student News) -- April 8, 2014
Unrest spreads in Ukraine as protests erupt in several cities. Today on CNN Student News, get two different perspectives on what's behind the demonstrations. We also cover a new prince's journey Down Under, and we report on a new island forming in the Pacific. And a retired teacher brings his former students face-to-face with their own words from the past.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What elements would you include in a video that aims to educate its audience about autism?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Ukraine
2. commonwealth
3. autism
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Where is Ukraine? What is one source of division among its people? Who is protesting in some of Ukraine's cities? According to the video, who are Ukraine's leaders blaming for the protests? How has Russia's government responded?
2. Who are the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge? What countries are they visiting? Why did William need special permission to travel on the same plane with his son, George? How is the royal family being received in their host countries? What relationship do these countries have with Great Britain?
3. What is autism? According to the video, what is happening to the rate of autism in the U.S.? About how many children are currently affected? In what three areas are children with autism most affected?
4. Who is Sarah Ramirez? How does she help her community? How does her work address the issues of poverty and obesity?
5. What writing assignment did retired teacher Bruce Farrer give to his ninth-grade students? Why did he assign this? What promise to them does he continue to keep? What were some of the things Scott Fulton asked his future self in his letter? What does he think of how his life turned out? When will Mr. Farrer mail his last student letter?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you know about autism? What resources would you consult if you wanted to learn more? In the video, we learn that the rate of autism is increasing among children. If you were researching the possible reasons behind this increase, what questions might you want to address as you begin your research?
2. Why do you think that poorer communities often do not have adequate access to healthy foods? What do you think could be done to address this problem?
3. If you were to write a letter to yourself to be opened 20 years from now, what are some things you might include? Why?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
