State troopers arrived at the home of Tiger Woods on Saturday to interview the pro golfer and his wife about a car crash near his home but were told the couple was not available to talk as scheduled, a spokeswoman for the Florida Highway Patrol said.
The troopers were asked by Woods' agent to postpone the interview until Sunday, spokeswoman Sgt. Kim Montes told CNN. She said she didn't know whether a reason was given.
Troopers had also tried to speak to Woods on Friday as part of a routine car accident investigation, but his wife said he was sleeping, Montes said. Troopers decided they would come back Saturday afternoon.
While Woods is required to show his license, registration and proof of insurance, he's not obligated by state law to give a statement on the crash. However, it's "very unusual" not to do so, Montes said.
"We simply want to ask why did he crash his car," she said, adding, "All we're trying to do is get his side of the story."
Woods' agent, Mark Steinberg, did not respond to requests for comment Saturday.
Woods was treated and released from a hospital after suffering minor injuries in a car accident early Friday in his neighborhood in Windermere, a suburb of Orlando.
A joint statement from Woods' publicist and Health Central Hospital said Woods was in "good condition" after the accident outside his home.
Though they didn't interview Woods on Saturday, the troopers entered the luxury complex and started part of their investigation into the incident, Montes said. Investigators will seek possible surveillance tapes of the accident from Woods and his neighbors and review the 911 call from Friday, she said.
The single-vehicle accident occurred about 2:25 a.m., according to a police report. Woods pulled out of his driveway in a 2009 Cadillac SUV and struck a fire hydrant, then a tree, the report says.
Authorities have said they don't have details on why Woods was driving away from his home at such an early hour. Montes acknowledged there are questions surrounding the circumstances of the crash, saying, "If this turns up something else, we'll go down that road. ... We're knee-deep in this now."
Police Chief Daniel Saylor on Friday said two Windermere police officers were the first to arrive on the scene.
"There was Tiger Woods laying on the ground in front of the vehicle with his wife over him rendering first aid," he told reporters.
"He was in and out of consciousness with lacerations to his upper and lower lip," Saylor said. "He was mumbling but didn't say anything coherent."
Woods' wife, Elin Nordegren, told the police she was inside the house when she heard the accident. She said she went outside and used a golf club to break out the rear window of the vehicle, then pulled him from the SUV.
"According to the officers, yes, she was very upset," he said in response to a question. But, he added, "Things like this happen all the time ... I understand he's stable and he's fine." Cellphone pictures of the accident from CNN affiliate WFTV
Nordegren rode in the ambulance with Woods, who was treated at Health Central Hospital before he was released Friday, Montes said Saturday.
Montes said both rear passenger windows of the SUV -- which was towed from the scene -- were shattered and there was damage to the left and right of its front end, resulting in $5,000 to $8,000 in estimated damages. She said the left side hit the fire hydrant, the right hit the tree.
The accident was not alcohol-related, according to the police report.
The 33-year-old golf phenomenon has won 14 major championships, only four shy of Jack Nicklaus' record. His 71 PGA tournament victories rank third all time behind Sam Snead and Nicklaus. Tiger Woods: A true sporting legend
He was set to host and play in the Chevron World Challenge on Monday at Sherwood Country Club in Thousand Oaks, California. Woods has won the tournament -- which helps raise money for Tiger Woods Foundation programs -- four times.
Woods has won six times on the PGA tour this year after returning from knee surgery he underwent in 2008.
In a post on his blog last month, Woods said he was "absolutely thrilled" about his play of late, adding, "This has been one of my most consistent years on the PGA tour."
Woods and his wife have two children ages 2 years and 10 months.
CNN's Kim Segal, Susan Candiotti and Ross Levitt contributed to this report.
