A man who wrote a controversial book considered a "how-to" guide for pedophiles was booked into a Florida jail Tuesday after defending his book to reporters.
Phillip Greaves, who was arrested Monday in Colorado, said "The Pedophile's Guide to Love and Pleasure: A Child-Lover's Code of Conduct" can be used as a guide to rehabilitating pedophiles, and -- instead of teaching them how to avoid arrest -- teaches them to avoid illegal actions.
Asked if he is a pedophile, Greaves said, "I only have sex with grown-ups." He said he has no children and "I don't keep children around my house."
Polk County, Florida, Sheriff Grady Judd has said his detectives were able to establish jurisdiction in the case by conducting an undercover operation, buying the book through the mail.
Greaves protested Tuesday he is the target of entrapment, but Judd disagreed.
"He wrote this book, he published this book, he put it on Amazon to sell," Judd told reporters as Greaves was booked into the Polk County Jail, "and he freely responded to our desire to purchase it."
Greaves and his book gained national attention this year after Amazon.com defended selling the book despite angry comments and threats of boycotts. The book was removed from the website in November.
Officials said the book talks about safe sex and avoiding injury to children, grooming and preparing children for sex and teaching children how to lie to their parents.
Judd said Greaves' book outlines a "code of ethics" that shows pedophiles how to look for the most vulnerable children.
Greaves told reporters Tuesday he wrote the book to exorcise his own childhood. He said he was introduced to sex at age 7 by a 10-year-old friend and began having sex with other children. It continued, he said, until he was about 15 when he stopped and did not have sex again for years.
"Once I got into adolescence, I suppose you could have identified me as an adolescent pedophile," he said. But now, he said, he is an example of the fact that people can reform.
"I think all speech should be protected," Greaves said. But "I was not the one who solicited the material to be sent to Florida. I think Florida law is for Floridians and Colorado law is for Coloradoans."
He told reporters he will not be able to make bond: "I'm actually quite poor."
CNN legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin said on CNN's "360°" on Monday night that prosecutors may have a hard time convicting Greaves and maintained his arrest was unconstitutional.
"I don't think they can go forward because the book is clearly protected by the First Amendment," Toobin said. "This book, as awful as it is, it is only words."
Judd vehemently disagreed with Toobin's assessment of the case.
"This has nothing to do with free speech and everything to do with obscenity," Judd said. "We had a law in Florida that applied. We only needed jurisdiction."
He said the book violates Florida law. "There's too much hand-wringing across the nation. When we can't stand together as a nation and say you can't write a book with real stories of children being sexually abused, then it's time to change the law."
Judd said of Greaves: "Clearly, in our opinion, he's a pedophile. ... The guy is clearly trying to instruct people how to sexually abuse children, a step-by-step instruction guide with real-life examples. That's against the obscenity law in Florida, and we're excited to take it to court."
Referring to Toobin's comments about the book being just words, he said, "Words become actions, and words in and of themselves can get you in trouble. If you threaten the president, you're in trouble. ... There are limits to what you can do."
He said prosecutors and a circuit judge signed off on the arrest.
Toobin pointed to a similar case that went to the Supreme Court in 2002 in which cartoons depicting children in acts similar to ones in Greaves' book were deemed protected by the Constitution.
"Certainly the sheriff and I disagree about the constitutional issue, but I agree with him that the issue of child pornography is a very serious one, and I'm certainly glad that law enforcement is taking an active stand against it," Toobin said.
