France striker Thierry Henry has signed for the New York Red Bulls, the Major League Soccer club have announced.
Henry joins from Barcelona, where he spent three seasons and won two Spanish league titles as well as the European Champions League.
The 32-year-old is France's leading goalscorer having netted 51 times for his country and will be introduced to the press on July 15.
His signing on a "multi-year contract" represents a major coup for the Red Bulls and for the MLS. Henry will become one of the most high-profile names in the league, alongside England international David Beckham.
"This marks an exciting new chapter in my career and life," Henry told the club's official website. "It is an honor to play for the New York Red Bulls.
"I am fully aware of the team's history and my sole goal during my time here is to help win the club its first championship.
"Knowing Red Bull's significant commitment to soccer locally and internationally, I am confident that my teammates and I will succeed."
Henry was part of France's World Cup squad who were knocked out in the first round in South Africa and caused uproar among their fans by refusing to train two days before a match.
He also caused controversy when his blatant handball led to a vital goal in France's winning qualification playoff with Ireland that secured their place at the tournament.
Before joining Barcelona Henry spent eight seasons with English Premier League Arsenal, becoming their all-time record goalscorer and winning two league titles and three FA Cups.
Ironically, Henry's first game for the Red Bulls could be against Arsenal's bitter north London rivals Tottenham Hotspur on July 22.
"It is without question that Thierry Henry is one of the most successful and recognizable soccer players over the past 15 years," said Dietmar Beiersdorfer, Head of Red Bull Global Soccer.
"We are thrilled that Thierry has decided to come to New York to help the Red Bulls compete for championships this year and for years to come. His international pedigree is second to none and he is a proven winner."
Erik Soler, Red Bull New York General Manager and Sporting Director, added: "Thierry is not only a world class player who will undoubtedly improve our squad, but he has shown most importantly throughout his career that he is a winner.
"He has made it clear to us that he is committed in the short and long term to help in our vision of making our organization the premium franchise in Major League Soccer."
