Joshua Scowcroft has lived through some intense winter weather in the decade he's lived in Vermont. But this winter -- which offered an encore Monday in the form of up to 30 inches of snow -- takes the cake.
"This is the snowiest, craziest winter I have ever seen in my life," he told CNN on Tuesday, after hand-shoveling enough snow to create a 7-foot pile by the driveway.
"Between brutally cold days of negative 20 with the wind, then two days where the temperature hit 50 and 30 inches of snow in 24 or 48 hours, this is one for the books," Scowcroft said.
The storm -- the same system that brought tornadoes to Louisiana earlier in the week -- dumped up to 30 inches of snow on parts of Vermont, New York and Maine. It also brought heavy rain to parts of Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts and Virginia and prompted flood warnings and watches as far south as Georgia, according to CNN meteorologist Monica O'Connor.
In Burlington, where the National Weather Service officially reported 17.1 inches of snow but posted reports of up to 30 inches in places, Christopher Reynolds was still cooped up on Tuesday, if comfortably, "with plenty of food for a week if need be."
"It's great to see the sun today -- very pretty with all the pine trees hanging low with their thick coating of snow," he said.
Although many roads were clear, Reynolds and his family were still stuck Tuesday because the family snow removal contractor spent much of the day rescuing people from the snow or getting stuck himself, Reynolds said. By the time he arrived Monday night, he could get only halfway up their driveway before he had to quit.
The snow comes as an unwelcome coda to winter for Vermont, where the 43 inches recorded in February set a record for the month, according to the O'Connor. That being said, heavy March snow is not unheard of in the state -- the record for the month is 47.6 inches, she said.
While the snow was a nuisance, flooding was the greater threat throughout parts of the Northeast.
High water from intense rain caused major flooding along the Housatonic and Still rivers in Connecticut, as well as minor or moderate flooding along the Connecticut, Farmington, Quinnipiac and Pomperaug rivers.
In Oxford, Connecticut, video from CNN affiliate WTNH showed fast-moving floodwater rising almost to the doorknobs of some homes.
Oxford resident A.J. Monaco told the station that the water rose too quickly for him to get anything out of the house.
"Came out of nowhere," he said. "Next thing you know I have 3 feet of water and I had no time to do anything but lock up the house, jump in the truck and watch the water accumulate higher and higher."
Up to 2 1/2 inches of rain are forecast for parts of Connecticut on Thursday, raising the threat of additional flooding in the western part of the state, according to the state Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security.
The storm also could bring a bit more snow to Vermont.
