(CNN Student News) -- October 17, 2013
After weeks of accusations and negotiations, U.S. congressional leaders announced a temporary deal to end the partial government shutdown and raise the U.S. debt ceiling. On Thursday, CNN Student News reports on how long the plan would last. We also discuss cyberbullying, the end of a Macy's Thanksgiving policy, and the reaction to one soldier's inspiring salute. Plus, a massive fish spawns ideas for scientific research.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How can a photograph be a source of inspiration to those who see it? What kinds of photographs are the most inspiring?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. cyberbullying
2. Purple Heart
3. "pay it forward"
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What change has Macy's made with regard to Thanksgiving Day shopping? How did some shoppers and employees react when other stores made a similar change?
2. What are the circumstances surrounding a photo of a wounded soldier's salute?
3. Describe the oarfish recently found off the coast of California. What does the scientist in the video want to do with this fish?
Discussion Questions:
1. What different perspectives might Americans have on the political agreement announced yesterday?
2. What do you think might be some of the causes of bullying? Do you think that arresting young people for stalking or harassment will have an impact on this issue? Explain. Do you think that raising awareness about bullying helps to curtail the issue? Why or why not?
3. Why do you think the photograph of a wounded soldier's salute has gone viral? How did seeing this picture and hearing the story make you feel?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Washington, D.C.
New York City
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
