LAS VEGAS, Nevada -- LeBron James put on another shooting clinic in a 118-81 rout of Argentina as the United States locked up a tournament gold medal to go with an Olympic berth at the FIBA Americas Championship on Sunday.
James and Chauncey Billups hoist the trophy after the U.S. won the FIBA Americas title to go with an Olympic berth.
James, who had a perfect night against Uruguay earlier in the tournament by hitting all 11 of his field goals, led the heavily-favored Americans with four three pointers in the third quarter and capped his night with a game-high 31 points.
"LeBron's performance was one of the best ever in an international game that a U.S. player has had," American coach Mike Krzyzewski said.
Carmelo Anthony and Dwight Howard also looked unstoppable, springboarding the U.S. to a 25-point lead at the half at the Thomas and Mack Center arena. Anthony finished with 16 points and eight rebounds and Howard had 20 points and five rebounds.
"This Team USA is one of the best I have seen," Argentina head coach Sergio Hernandez said.
"Nobody will ever forget the first Dream Team with Michael Jordan and Magic Johnson, but I like this USA team very much with Kobe Bryant and LeBron James. They really know how to play together."
The U.S. and defending Olympic champion Argentina were playing for FIBA Americas bragging rights as both countries had already clinched berths in the basketball tournament for next summer's Beijing Games.
Elias Ayuso scored 39 points and Carlos Arroyo had 30 and 10 assists as Puerto Rico beat Brazil 111-107 for the bronze medal earlier in the day.
America and Argentina join host nation China, Spain (world champion), Iran (Asia), Australia (Oceania), Angola (Africa) at the 2008 Olympic Games.
Brazil, Puerto Rico, and Canada will get another chance to qualify at a 12-team 2008 FIBA Olympic qualifying tournament next July in which three more countries will punch their tickets to Beijing.
The U.S. were never seriously challenged at this zone qualifying tournament and heading into the final their 39.2 average margin of victory is one of the highest in tournament history.
"The thing I enjoyed most about this team is that everybody put their egos aside," James said. "Guys like Kobe who win scoring titles every year handed it over to Carmelo. We are all here for one reason and that is to win the gold medal." E-mail to a friend
