Passengers might already be expecting the glamor of the "Grand Budapest Hotel" when they set sail aboard the "Queen Mary 2."
This June they'll also get movie director Wes Anderson.
Anderson, whose whimsical cinematic visions have earned him a cult following and two Academy Award nominations, will join the luxury liner to participate in chats about his work.
Accompanying him on the June 13 voyage will be two regular actors in his movie casts, Oscar-winning Tilda Swinton and Jason Schwartzman.
Screenplay writer and director Roman Coppola, who has collaborated with Anderson on several films, including "Moonrise Kingdom" and "The Darjeeling Limited," will also be on board during the seven day transatlantic crossing from New York to Southampton, England.
MORE: 7 best expat movies of all time
Cunard, which operates the "Queen Mary 2," says Anderson and his colleagues will take part in film screenings as well as question and answer sessions.
"This is going to be my first time on board the 'Queen Mary 2,' but I have been looking forward to having this chance since before the ship was even launched over 10 years ago," Anderson says in a Cunard press statement.
"I'm especially happy to be able to travel this way with my great friends."
MORE: 7 worst expat movies of all time
The life aquatic
Anderson, whose works include "Rushmore," "The Royal Tenenbaums" and "The Fantastic Mr. Fox," was awarded the Silver Bear Grand Jury Prize at the 2014 Berlin International Film Festival for his latest release "The Grand Budapest Hotel."
The film charts the escapades of a formidable concierge and his lobby boy sidekick at a famous hotel frequented by the kind of clientele that wouldn't be out of place on cruise ship crossing the Atlantic.
While there may be echoes of the "Grand Budapest Hotel" on board the "Queen Mary 2," there won't be any real life representation of Anderson's earlier work, "The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou."
That movie saw Bill Murray star as a hapless oceanographer who leads the crew of his boat into the hands of pirates -- thankfully not a scenario included in ticket prices ranging from $1,298 to $18,948.
MORE: Fearless photog risks his life for perfect wave pics
