Defending champion Roger Federer will seek to claim his fourth Cincinnati Masters title on Sunday when he faces Mardy Fish.
The third seed Federer leads Fish 5-1 in career meetings, but Fish beat Federer in their last meeting in 2008 at Indian Wells, according to ATP World Tour's Web site.
In Saturday's semifinal, Fish beat fellow American ninth seed Andy Roddick 4-6, 7-6(3), 6-1 after rallying from a set down and near-defeat in the second set, according to ATP World Tour.
Two rain delays went in favor of Fish, the first coming when Roddick led 5-4 in the first set, giving each players an hour respite. The second delay came during the second set when Fish was facing near-defeat at 2-5. Fish would return and force a tie-breaker, which he'd win, followed by a dominant deciding set.
"I've never felt better on the court, and I've never been more confident and I've never played better," Fish said, according to ATP World Tour's Web site. "I've won a lot of matches this summer. [The weight loss] has a ton to do with it," he added, referring to some 30 pounds (13.6 kilos) he has shed.
Of the weather, Roddick said, according to ATP World Tour, "That's the thing with rain delays. The momentum can shift really fast."
Federer, playing against Cypriot Marcos Baghdatis in the other Saturday semifinal, won handedly 6-4, 6-3.
The five-time ATP World Tour No. 1 from Switzerland dropped only three points on first serve and attributed a more aggressive game, including rushes to the net, to his downtime since Wimbledon.
"After Wimbledon I had six weeks to work on a few things. On the hard courts it's nice to play forwards and not always be defensive and let the other guy dictate," ATP World Tour quoted Federer as saying. "I'm happy that the hard work is paying off right away."
Baghdatis, now ranked 20th, on Friday upset world No. 1 Rafael Nadal for the first time in his career following six defeats to the Spaniard.
Federer is seeking only his second title this year following January's Australian Open success.
