(CNN Student News) -- March 11, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Washington, D.C. • Wisconsin • Boston, Massachusetts
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
NATISHA LANCE, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Fridays are always awesome here on CNN Student News. And we thank you for spending part of your Friday with us. Hi, everyone. I'm Natisha Lance, sitting in today for Carl Azuz.
First Up: Congressional Hearings
LANCE: First up, we're talking about hearings on Capitol Hill that caused controversy even before they started. The House Homeland Security Committee is holding these hearings to look into the radicalization of American Muslims. Basically, the idea that a group like al Qaeda could recruit U.S. Muslims and turn them into terrorists. Some critics called the hearings an unfair attack on loyal Americans. But Representative Peter King, who's the chairman of the committee, says that the goal is not to condemn Islam as a religion or American Muslims as a group. But he says the hearings are designed to limit the threat of terrorism. And he also believes they're important to America's safety.
REP. PETER KING, (R) NEW YORK: Let me make it clear today, that I remain convinced that these hearings must go forward and they will. To back down would be a craven surrender to political correctness and an abdication of what I believe to be the main responsibility of this committee: to protect America from a terrorist attack.
LANCE: One of the people who testified during yesterday's hearings was Representative Keith Ellison, the first Muslim elected to the U.S. Congress. He acknowledged that some Muslims are responsible for violent actions. But he said you can't blame an entire community for the evil of some individuals. He got especially emotional talking about a Muslim paramedic and police cadet who died trying to help others during the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
REP. KEITH ELLISON, (D) MINNESOTA: Mohammed Salman Hamdani was a fellow American who gave his life for other Americans. His life should not be identified as just as a member of an ethnic group or just a member of a religion, but as an American who gave everything for his fellow Americans.
Bullying Prevention
LANCE: Bullying has been a big topic in the news recently. And yesterday, President Obama and first lady Michelle Obama hosted the first ever White House Conference on Bullying Prevention. Parents and students got together to talk about the effects of bullying and how to stop it in school and online. Ed Henry, our senior White House correspondent, has more on that event.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
ED HENRY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: President Obama using this first-ever White House anti-bullying summit as a forum to try to bring attention to this very, very difficult issue and say, look, for too long there have been students all around the country who have just accepted it, that they were going to get picked on, that they were going to be bullied, be the subject of assaults and violence and that it was sort of a rite of passage for kids. The president says that given all these tragic incidents where some kids have committed suicide over bullying, he says it's time for all of this to end, for schools to have higher standards. And he and the first lady have used various social media tools like Facebook to bring that message directly to students, to report some of these bullying incidents, for example. The president used his forum at the White House to say that even he as a kid was bullied.
U.S. PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: As adults, we all remember what it was like to see kids picked on in the hallways or in the schoolyard. And I have to say, with big ears and the name that I have, I wasn't immune. I didn't emerge unscathed. But because it's something that happens a lot, and it's something that's always been around, sometimes we've turned a blind eye to the problem. We've said, "Kids will be kids." And so, sometimes we overlook the real damage that bullying can do, especially when young people face harassment day after day, week after week.
HENRY: So the bottom line is, the key moving forward is going to be, will there actually be some action to back up some of the talk at this summit. Ed Henry, CNN, the White House.
(END VIDEO)
Wisconsin Showdown
LANCE: The showdown in Wisconsin may be over. The anger is not. This started with Republican Governor Scott Walker's budget proposal that would limit negotiating rights for workers' unions. Fourteen Democratic state Senators fled the state so that there wouldn't be enough people there to pass the bill. On Wednesday, Republicans took out all the parts of the bill that had to do with the budget. Voting on non-budget bills requires less people, so the reduced negotiating rights passed. Protesters at the capitol yesterday started pounding on the windows. That forced police to put the building in lockdown! They closed the capitol and forcibly removed anyone inside who wouldn't leave. One entrance was re-opened later in the day.
Shoutout
THOMAS ANDRES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's first Shoutout goes out to Mr. Govern's social studies classes at Riceville Community High School in Riceville, Iowa! What is the smallest type of bird? If you think you know it, shout it out! Is it the: A) Finch, B) Sparrow, C) Egret or D) Hummingbird? You've got three seconds -- GO! Hummingbirds are the smallest; even the largest variety is only about 8 inches long. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
"Hummingbird" Drones
LANCE: Imagine if the military had a vehicle that was as small as a hummingbird. Definitely wouldn't be able to fit a pilot in there. But that's actually the point. We're talking about drones, aircraft that someone flies by remote control. The U.S. military has used drones for years. Chris Lawrence is going to show us one right now that could bring big changes to the battlefield.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
CHRIS LAWRENCE, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Imagine a drone as small as a hummingbird; same shape, same sound. Wait, don't imagine. It's here in this California lab.
MATT KEENNON, AEROVIRONMENT PROJECT MANAGER: It looks more or less like an indigenous small bird, and it can fly through small clearings and through trees and seeing inside.
LAWRENCE: AeroVironment's Matt Keennon says this is how the bird sees us from above. Right now, the hummingbird can only fly a little bit longer than 10 minutes. But at that size, imagine what it could do in 10 hours. The Defense Department has spent $4 million with that dream in mind: American troops armed with an unmanned vehicle that blends into the other birds or insects in a given country.
KEENNON: The operator hovers the aircraft around until it finds an opening.
LAWRENCE: Perhaps even buzz into a room, drop a payload and leave. But most unmanned vehicles, the hummingbird included, still depend on man to control their cameras or movements.
LT. GEN. DAVID DEPTULA, U.S. AIR FORCE (RETIRED): But that's a vulnerability. That can be interrupted. That can be hacked.
LAWRENCE: Retired General David Deptula says future enemies will cut the operator's connection unless drones become more autonomous. He says sure, drones have worked in Iraq and Afghanistan, because there's very few missiles to shoot them down.
DEPTULA: But if you fly these same vehicles where there is an air defense, those MQ-1 Predators and MQ-9 Reapers would be falling from the sky like rain.
LAWRENCE: Compared to other drones, the hummingbird has a six-inch wing span and weighs less than a AA battery. But the designer needs to add intelligence to its small size.
KEENNON: It could be much more useful if the aircraft could keep itself safe.
LAWRENCE: If so, the military has designs beyond battle. It envisions the bird helping to find victims, weaving through crevices created by an earthquake.
(END VIDEO)
Shoutout Extra Credit
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for a Shoutout Extra Credit! Under which president did the start of Daylight Saving Time in the U.S. move from April to March? You know what to do! Was it: A) George W. Bush, B) Bill Clinton, C) Ronald Reagan or D) Jimmy Carter? Rewind the clock to three seconds -- and GO! The shift happened in 2007 under President George W. Bush. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout Extra Credit!
Wakeup Calls
LANCE: That Daylight Saving shift comes this weekend. You might be losing an hour of sleep. But if you think that gives you an excuse to be late to school on Monday, school officials in Boston, Massachusetts are ready to give you a wake-up call! Some of the city's students who are late to class on a regular basis will hear the phone ring at 6:15 a.m. Might be your principal, might be a celebrity. But the message is simple: get up and get to school! The district says the goal is to keep students from falling too far behind. Some parents are okay with the wake-up calls. But others say the schools are overstepping their bounds.
Blog Promo
LANCE: So, whose responsibility is it? That's what we're asking on our blog. When it comes to making sure you're on time for school, is it on you, your parents, your teachers and principals? Share your opinions on our blog at CNNStudentNews.com!
Before We Go
LANCE: And finally, if leg of lamb sounds good to you, you're gonna love today's Before We Go segment. 'Cause we have 20! Five baby lambs, born on a farm in Canada. The owner says it's pretty rare. Sheep usually give birth to single lambs, maybe twins or even triplets. In fact, these little guys' mom has had triplets twice before. But quintuplets don't come along too often. We were hoping to get a reaction from the mama sheep, but she didn't seem too talkative.
Goodbye
LANCE: I guess she was just being sheepish. Hopefully, this isn't a hoax, because we'd hate for someone to pull the wool over our eyes. Ewe had to know that one was coming. Remember to set your clocks ahead this weekend. For CNN Student News, I'm Natisha Lance.
