Tributes have flooded in for former West Indies Test player Runako Morton, who was killed in a car crash in Trinidad Sunday.
The 33-year-old Morton played all three forms of international cricket for the West Indies, last representing them two years ago.
Reports said he was driving home alone on his way home from a match when the tragic accident occurred in central Trinidad.
West Indies Cricket Board president Dr Julian Hunte gave the official reaction to his death.
"Runako's passing, still in the prime of life, leaves us all in shock," he said. "Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends as we all try to come to terms with his loss.
"He will be remembered as a fierce competitor on the field who gave no quarter whether he was playing for West Indies, Leeward Islands, Nevis or Trinidad and Tobago."
Former captain Chris Gayle tweeted: "We lost a True Warrior WI Cricketer Runako Morton - May (h)is soul
rest in peace!
While former teammate Wavell Hinds also used his Twitter blog to express his feelings.
"Gone far too soon brother Runako. I will treasure the great memories for sure. RIP. God knows best."
Morton, who hailed from the tiny island of Nevis, scored 573 Test runs at an average of 22.03 and 1519 in one day internationals (ODI) at 33.75.
His Test debut came against Sri Lanka in Colombo in 2005, and he made his maiden ODI hundred against New Zealand a year later.
But despite being an acknowledged talent, Morton was unable to cement a regular place in the West Indies team in any format.
In other cricket news Monday, former New Zealand captain Chris Cairns has began his High Court action in London against former Indian Premier League chairman Lalit Modi.
Cairns, 41, is suing Modi for substantial libel damages over an "unequivocal allegation" made on Twitter that he was involved in match-fixing.
The disputed tweet was picked up and reported on the cricket website Cricinfo, but they were forced to remove it by Cairns and pay him damages.
However Modi refused to apologize and pleaded justification, maintaining that the charge was true. The case, without a jury, is expected to last two weeks.
