Chelsea's chances of retaining the English Premier League title suffered another setback on Sunday as struggling Aston Villa snatched a last-gasp 3-3 draw in London.
Carlo Ancelotti's team had fought back to lead 3-2 with two goals in the last 10 minutes, but poor defending allowed young Villa fullback Ciaran Clark to equalize with a free header in the second minute of time added on.
The result left Chelsea in fifth place, a point behind Tottenham and six adrift of the leading Manchester clubs United and City.
The Blues ended 2010 with a morale-boosting win over Bolton last Wednesday, and looked like extending that form when Frank Lampard scored his first goal since returning from long-term injury in the 23rd minute.
The influential midfielder netted a penalty after James Collins was punished for a clumsy shove from behind on Florent Malouda, but Villa equalized four minutes before halftime when Ashley Young smashed home another spotkick following Michael Essien's foul on Nigel Reo-Coker.
New year, new Rooney as United stay top
Former England striker Emile Heskey put Villa ahead two minutes after the break with a powerful header from Stewart Downing's cross, but Chelsea's relentless pressure finally told in the 84th minute when Didier Drogba fired home a low shot after the visitors could not clear his clever chest-down to Malouda.
Defender John Terry then popped up to slot in a rare goal with a minute to go in regulation time after Villa's otherwise excellent goalkeeper Brad Friedel could only parry Drogba's header into the former England captain's path.
That sparked scenes of jubilation and relief on the Chelsea bench, but Villa left Ancelotti's future in some doubt when the 21-year-old Clark stole into the penalty area unmarked to head home a teasing cross from substitute Marc Albrighton.
Chelsea have now won only once in eight league games, having played one more game than United -- a situation that is unlikely to please the club's billionaire owner Roman Abramovich.
"We needed to win this game. We didn't and now it's more difficult to prepare for the next game," Italian coach Ancelotti told reporters.
"I'm disappointed because we worked very hard in the second half to come back into the game when 2-1 down. We did a fantastic job, we came back and scored to make it 3-2 and everyone thought the game was finished."
While Ancelotti will have to face more questions about his increasingly insecure tenure, the result lifted the pressure on Villa's French manager Gerard Houllier, whose team moved two points clear of the bottom three.
Football's heroes and villains of 2010
"It's a massive point," American veteran Friedel told match broadcaster Sky Sports. "We've been in such a bad run of form we needed something, and it's great to get it at Stamford Bridge.
"We've got over what I thought was a poor penalty decision against us at the start and we've fought back, and hopefully this will kick-start our season and we can get back up the table."
In Sunday's late game, Newcastle won 1-0 at Wigan to give new manager Alan Pardew his second victory after two successive defeats.
Striker Shola Ameobi, playing alone up front in place of England striker Andy Carroll, scored a 19th-minute winner from close range after Joey Barton's shot was blocked and Peter Lovenkrands poked the follow-up against the post.
Newcastle moved up to 10th place, above Blackpool on goal difference but below Liverpool, to be six points clear of the bottom three.
Defenders Steven Taylor and Fabricio Coloccini headed against the bar, while Gary Caldwell struck the woodwork for Wigan, who remained just a point above the relegation zone.
Meanwhile, Celtic moved four points clear in the Scottish Premier League with a 2-0 victory at defending champions Rangers as Greece striker Giorgios Samaras netted both goals, the second from the penalty spot after he was fouled.
Rangers have played two fewer games than their Glasgow rivals following recent postponements due to snowy weather in Britain.
