(CNN Student News) -- October 3, 2014
Today's show answers some common questions concerning the Ebola virus, which was recently diagnosed for the first time in the U.S. As the U.S. Supreme Court prepares for its 2014-2015 session, we'll tell you what's on (and currently off) the docket. And fasten your seat belt for a ride in an iconic aircraft of World War II.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. In what country did a sudden, deadly eruption of Mount Ontake occur last weekend?
2. What Southeast Asian country sent an orbiter to Mars for a fraction of the cost of similar NASA missions?
3. Name the special administrative region of China that saw the protests of thousands of students this week.
4. On what date does the Atlantic Hurricane Season end?
5. What U.S. government agency was established in 1865 to combat counterfeiting?
6. The Demilitarized Zone, which is actually the most heavily militarized border on Earth, separates what two countries?
7. What is the second-largest religion in the world?
8. How many associate justices serve on the U.S. Supreme Court?
9. From what country, which borders northern Syria, did a CNN reporter witness combat involving Kurds and ISIS terrorists?
10. What was the nickname of the B-17 bomber, which served the U.S. in World War II?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
