U.S. Ryder Cup captain Davis Love III plans to emulate the decision of his Presidents Cup counterpart Fred Couples and select former world number one Tiger Woods for next year's contest with Europe.
Woods, a 14-time major winner, has struggled with form and fitness since problems in his personal life emerged two years ago. The American has slipped to 50th in golf's world rankings, having not won a tournament since the Australian Masters in November 2009.
But the 35-year-old's recent slump has not prevented Couples, the 1992 Masters champion, from selecting Woods as a wildcard pick for November's Presidents Cup clash with the International team in Australia.
"Well I've been asked that a lot, what would I do if I was in Fred's situation," Love, himself a former major champion, told a press conference at Medina Golf and Country Club in Chicago, the venue for the 2012 Ryder Cup.
Look out Europe: American golf is bouncing back
"You certainly want one of the best players ever in the game, you want him on your team. I'm hoping, for Tiger's sake, that he has a full healthy season next year and we are not in this situation. That he's back to his form and he's ready to go.
"I would love to play as Tiger Woods' partner in a Presidents Cup or a Ryder Cup. So I would probably have to go with exactly what Fred did."
Woods has played in six Ryder Cups since 1997, but his only experience of team victory came at Brookline, Massachusetts in 1999 after missing out due to injury three years ago.
He had planned to take the rest of this year off, but his Presidents Cup selection persuaded him to enter the Frys.com Open starting October 6, when he will be partnered by new caddy Joe LaCava -- who carried Couples' bag for more than 20 years.
LaCava left Couples this year when the 51-year-old decided to reduce his playing schedule, and worked with 2010 Ryder Cup player Dustin Johnson until the end of the PGA Tour's recent FedEx Cup playoffs.
"Joe is an outstanding caddy," Woods told his official website on Sunday. "I have known him for many years. I've personally seen the great job he did for Freddie. I'm anxious for us to be working together."
LaCava added: "I'm excited to be working with Tiger. I contacted Tiger and Mark (Steinberg, Woods' agent) because this is a unique opportunity to be part of something very special.
"Tiger and I have been friends for a very long time, and I know what he can do."
