Medal of Honor recipient Dakota Meyer and defense contractor BAE announced Thursday an "amicable" end to their dispute.
Meyer filed a lawsuit in Texas in June claiming BAE, his former employer, had punished him for objecting to a weapons sale to Pakistan, and had prevented him from finding other work by portraying him as unstable and a problem drinker. The lawsuit against the company and his former supervisor has been dropped.
"BAE Systems OASYS and I have settled our differences amicably," Meyer said in a joint statement issued by the company, referring to the company by its full name. Meyer praised the defense firm's support for veterans and generosity to the Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation.
There were no details of any possible monetary settlement.
"During my time there I became concerned about the possible sale of advanced thermal scopes to Pakistan. I expressed my concerns directly and respectfully," Meyer said. "I am gratified to learn that BAE Systems OASYS did not ultimately sell and does not intend to sell advanced thermal scopes to Pakistan."
The company faced the difficult task of a potentially drawn-out legal battle against an American hero.
"We are pleased that we reached closure in this matter," the company said in its part of the joint statement. "BAE Systems has the highest respect for Sgt. Dakota Meyer, who exemplifies the qualities that make the men and women of our armed services the best in the world," the company said. "We owe him and the many thousands of others who have served and sacrificed for our country our deepest thanks."
According to the lawsuit, Meyer had objected to the sale of high-tech equipment to Pakistan, which he characterized as "giving to guys who are known to stab us in the back" and "the same people who are killing our guys."
Meyer was working on thermal optic equipment for snipers and detection of roadside bombs. In his lawsuit he claimed that on-the-job bullying and intimidation began after his criticism of potential sales to Pakistan.
President Barack Obama presented the Medal of Honor to Meyer, a former Marine Corps sergeant, in September. He was 21 and a corporal at the time of his heroic acts in Afghanistan in 2009.
"The story of what Dakota did next will be told for generations," Obama said, describing how Meyer returned again and again to the killing ground of a Taliban ambush, rescuing American and Afghan troops and retrieving the bodies of fallen comrades.
"You did your duty, above and beyond, and you kept the faith with the highest traditions of the Marine Corps that you love," the president said.
