Chelsea maintained its unbeaten start to the English Premier League season but were made to sweat against a dogged Sunderland side Saturday.
Jose Mourinho's men have been far and away the best team in England over recent months but were frustrated by their opponents who thoroughly deserved their point from this hard-fought 0-0 draw.
The blank represents the first time Chelsea have failed to score this season -- but it wasn't for the want of trying.
Brazilian midfielder Willian struck a post midway through a first-half that saw Chelsea repeatedly press forward and Sunderland frantically try to keep them at bay.
Gus Poyet's men were well drilled and composed, a far cry from the side that conceded eight to Southampton just a few weeks ago.
But it wasn't all hustle and bustle from the Black Cats who also chances of their own. Santiago Vergini came closest when he grazed the crossbar after swiveling to connect with a Lee Cattermole cross.
Sunderland rope-a-dope
A Gary Cahill header and a stinging drive from Nemanja Matic was the extent of opportunities until midway through the second half.
Sunderland were quick to hit back with a thumping drive of their own through Conor Wickham that Chelsea keeper Thibaut Courtois did well to block.
It appeared Sunderland had been applying the rope-a-dope strategy until this point, becoming stronger as the game wore on.
And as the closing stages approached it looked more likely that they would be the ones to break the deadlock.
Adam Johnson screwed wide when it looked easier to score after a shot from Jose Altidore fell at his feet 13-yards out.
The former Manchester City midfielder then fired inches wide from the edge of the box after bursting beyond the Chelsea midfield.
That would be as close as either side would come to winning it.
The tie means Chelsea are now seven points clear at the top of the EPL table, although that lead could be cut to four points if Southampton triumph at home to Manchester City Sunday.
EPL Roundup
In the day's early kick-off, a solitary goal from Danny Wellbeck was enough to give Arsenal victory away to West Brom and ease the pressure on manager Arsene Wenger who has come in for criticism from sections of the Arsenal support in recent weeks.
There have been no such job security worries for Louis Van Gaal despite a similarly sticky start to the EPL season. The Dutchman's Manchester United side have dug deep to pull together an impressive string of results in recent weeks.
And their fine form continued Saturday with a comfortable 3-0 victory at home to Hull City thanks to goals from Chris Smalling, Wayne Rooney and Robin Van Persie.
Elsewhere, Liverpool secured a late victory at home to Stoke City after Glen Johnson turned in a Rickie Lambert header that had rebounded off the visitors crossbar.
Aaron Cresswell's goal was enough to give West Ham victory over in-form Newcastle United while Queens Park Rangers beat Leicester City 3-2.
Swansea City were held at home 1-1 by Crystal Palace while EPL new boys Burnley drew 1-1 with Aston Villa.
