Australia cricket international Phil Hughes has died after being hit in the head by a ball on Tuesday.
The 25-year old, who had been hoping to regain his place in the team for next week's Test match against India, passed away on Thursday after failing to recover from an induced coma at a hospital in Sydney.
The South Australia batsman, who would have turned 26 on Sunday, was fatally injured when hit by a "bouncer," a short ball that bounces up towards the batsman's torso, near his left ear -- the ball somehow evading the cricketer's helmet as he swiveled to play a shot.
Australian team doctor Peter Brukner told a press conference Thursday that Hughes suffered a "massive bleed into his brain" during the game on Tuesday afternoon.
He said the ball hit the side of his neck and, "as a result of that blow, his vertebral artery was compressed by the ball. That caused the artery to split and for bleeding to go up into the brain. And he had a massive bleed into his brain. This is frequently fatal at the time."
But he said doctors on the scene, including a specialist who had been in the crowd, managed to resuscitate him. He was later taken to hospital where they made "an intervention" to release pressure on his brain. He was then put in an induced coma but failed to recover.
Family devastated
At the same press conference, James Sutherland, the CEO of Cricket Australia, paid tribute to the young cricketer. "Without doubt he was a rising star, with his best cricket ahead of him," he said.
"He was a hero to kids around the nation and particularly those around his home grounds of New South Wales."
Michael Clarke, Australia's Test captain, then read a short statement on behalf of Hughes' family.
"We are devastated by the loss of our much-loved son and brother."
"It's been a very difficult few days. We appreciate all the support we've received from family, friends, players, Cricket Australia and the general public.
"Cricket was Phillip's life, and we as a family shared that love of the game with him.
"We would like to thank all of the medical and nursing staff at St Vincent's Hospital, and Cricket NSW medical staff for their great efforts with Phillip, we love you."
Outpouring of emotion
His death has triggered an outpouring of emotion in Australia and among cricket enthusiasts the world over.
A statement from the office of Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott read: "Phillip Hughes was a young man living out his dreams.
"His death is a very sad day for cricket and a heartbreaking day for his family. What happened has touched millions of Australians.
"For a young life to be cut short playing our national game seems a shocking aberration.
"He was loved, admired and respected by his teammates and by legions of cricket fans.
"Australians' thoughts and prayers are with the Hughes family."
Former England international Nick Compton told CNN his former friend had lived "life to the full."
Born in Macksville, New South Wales, Hughes was a talented sportsman who counted both cricket and rugby league among his attributes as a teenager.
