Australia continued to dominate the Commonwealth Games with another golden haul in India on Friday, as swimmer Alicia Coutts picked up her fourth winner's medal and cyclist Cameron Meyer claimed his third.
The country, which hosted the Games four years ago, ended day five of competition with 98 medals overall -- 47 golds, 24 silver and 27 bronze.
India, for whom shooters Gagan Narang and Omkar Singh won their third titles of the week, were second on 20 golds, 16 silver and 12 bronze.
England has the second-most overall medals with 76, but only 19 of them are gold -- despite claiming another seven on Friday, including victories for swimming stars Rebecca Adlington, Liam Tancock and James Goddard.
While double Olympic champion Adlington, Goddard  and Tancock each claimed second golds in the 800m freestyle, 200m individual medley and 100m backstroke respectively, it was again Australia's day in the pool.
The 23-year-old Coutts added 4x100m freestyle relay gold to her three individual titles -- which all came in different disciplines -- as the Australians set a new Games record of 3:36.36 in retaining their title.
Leisel Jones completed a breaststroke double for the third successive time with victory in the 100m, becoming only the third woman to win nine golds since the Games began 80 years ago.
The 25-year-old saw Yolane Kukla -- a decade younger than her -- win the 50m freestyle, while Sophie Edington retained her 50m backstroke title.
Meagen Nay, who withdrew during last year's world championships due to the death of her brother and whose late father was a Commonwealth champion in 1974, won the 200m backstroke.
Her teammate Geoff Huegill also set a new record time in winning the men's 100m butterfly, which he also won 12 years ago before retiring in 2004.
Cycling
Meyer helped Australia win two of the three track golds on offer for 12 out of 14 overall as he took out the men's 25km scratch race from compatriot Michael Freiberg as he matched the feat of teammate Anna Meares.
Australia also won the team sprint, but New Zealander Alison Shanks claimed gold in the women's 3,000m pursuit ahead of Northern Ireland's Wendy Houvenaghel.
Wrestling
India's wrestlers had another successful day, with two golds and a silver in the women's divisions.
Anita won the 67kg class and Alka Tomar claimed victory in the 59kg.
Shooting
India also won three golds in the shooting, with world No. 17 Singh triumphant in the men's 10m air rifle singles final.
Narang, ranked third in the world, was again successful in the 50m rifle three positions event along with partner Imran Hasan Khan, setting a new Games best points tally.
Vijay Kumar won the 25m rapid fire pistol -- India's 10th shooting gold, and 18th medal in the sport.
Track and field
Amantle Montsho won Botswana's historic first gold medal with victory in the women's 400m in a Games record time of 50.10 seconds, heading off Nigeria's Folashade Abugan and Guyuna's Tabitha Pompey.
She took advantage of the absence of Olympic champion Christine Ohuruogo and Jamaica's Shericka Simpson, Novlene Williams-Mills and Kaliese Spencer from the field.
Kenya dominated the women's distance events, with Olympic champion Nancy Langat winning the 1,500m in a record time of 4:05.26 from New Zealand's Nikki Hamblin and Scotland's Stephanie Twell.
Grace Momanyi won the 10,000m from Doris Changeywo in the absence of their world champion compatriot Linet Masai, with India's Kavita Raut claiming bronze.
European champion Andy Turner won the men's 110m hurdles title from fellow English runners William Sharman and Lawrence Clarke.
Jamaica's Trecia Smith retained her triple jump title, while Canada's Jamie Adjetey-Nelson was a dominant winner of the men's decathlon.
Field hockey
South Africa's men's team joined New Zealand with two wins in Pool B, but have played one more game following the 5-3 victory against pointless Trinidad and Tobago.
Malaysia picked up a first win from three in Pool A, beating bottom team Scotland 2-0.
In the women's competition, New Zealand reached the semifinals after stunning top seeds England 4-1 in Pool B, where Canada kept their slim hopes alive with a 2-1 win over Wales.
Defending champions Australia were surprisingly held 1-1 by South Africa, leaving both teams on seven points in Pool B, where India thrashed Trinidad and Tobago 7-0 to stay in contention.
