Specialist military divers have arrived at the site where a Russian cruise ship sank over the weekend, killing more than 100 people, the Russian Defense Ministry said Wednesday.
The highly trained divers, who specialize in rescue operations and lifting sunken ships, have orders to present a plan to raise the "Bulgaria" from the Volga River as soon as possible, the ministry said in a press release.
Some of the divers participated in lifting the Russian nuclear submarine "Kursk," which exploded and sank in the Barents Sea in August 2000, the Defense Ministry said.
The bodies of two more children were recovered Wednesday from the ship, Russian authorities told CNN, bringing the number of bodies recovered to 102.  There are still 20 people missing of the more than 200 people believed to have been on the vessel, officials said.
At least 85 of the victims have been identified, the Emergency Situations Ministry said.
Four people face charges over the sinking of the ship Sunday, which Russian media are calling the most devastating river accident in the country's history.  The vessel went down in the Russian republic of Tatarstan.
Svetlana Inyakina, general director of Argorechtur, the company that rented the cruise boat "Bulgaria," and Yakov Ivashov, a manager at the Kama River Register, have been detained, Russia's Investigative Committee said.
They are charged with providing services that do not meet safety standards which resulted in multiple deaths, and if convicted could be jailed for up to 10 years.
Criminal charges are also being brought against the captains of two ships that are accused of passing the sinking boat without stopping to help the people in the water, the committee said. They could face heavy fines or up to three years in prison.
Russian Transport Minister Igor Levitin, who is also head of the special government commission investigating the accident, said divers will search around the clock until all of the victims are found.  Recovery efforts will also include small planes conducting reconnaissance flights as far as 80 miles downstream, the minister said.
There were 175 scuba divers working on the scene, authorities said Tuesday.
Russian state TV said they were working underwater in low visibility and against a heavy current that is moving the boat, which is lying at the bottom of the river.
Russia observed a day of mourning Tuesday with church services all across the country, flags flying at half-staff and national television canceling all entertainment programming.
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said the federal government would pay 1 million rubles ($35,500) to the families of each of the dead. He also promised 400,000 rubles ($14,250) to those who suffered major and moderately severe injuries, and half that sum to people with minor injuries.
Among the bodies to have been recovered are those of the ship's captain Alexander Ostrovsky and his wife, local officials in Tatarstan told Russian media at the site of the accident.
At least 79 people were rescued, some of whom have been released from hospitals after receiving medical treatment, according to government agencies.
The ship did not have a license to transport passengers, was overloaded, and was last repaired more than 30 years ago, the Russian Prosecutor's Office said Monday.
Prosecutors also established that the left engine of the ship was damaged, they said on their website.
Russian state TV reported the vessel had an operational limit of about 150 passengers, citing a top government official on site. State TV also reported, citing law enforcement officials, that there were life vests on board for only 156 people.
Emergency Situations Minister Sergei Shoigu said earlier there were 208 people aboard the ship, of whom 25 passengers were not officially registered and didn't have tickets. The state news agency RIA Novosti reported that 205 people were on board.
The ferry was built in 1955 in Czechoslovakia, according to Russian law enforcement officials.
The double-deck cruise ship went down near the village of Syukeyevo in Tatarstan, about 80 kilometers (50 miles) south of the city of Kazan. Kazan is about 724 kilometers (450 miles) east of Moscow.
CNN's Arkady Irshenko contributed to this report.
