Manchester United captain Nemanja Vidic has told CNN he expects Chelsea and Manchester City to challenge for English Premier League honors.
Vidic, 29, led Alex Ferguson's team to a record 19th English league title last season, and the Serbia defender is confident United can keep the Premier League trophy at Old Trafford if they make a strong start to the campaign.
"I would say Chelsea is always there because of experience," said Vidic when asked who the Red Devils' main rivals would be.
"They have players who have been playing a few years together, and they know each other very well. And they will be hungry to win the title yet again.
Big kick-off: Who will win Europe's top leagues?
"City, they have a made few signings, I think they will be even stronger this year, especially because they play one year together. I think they will be our bigger rivals."
Vidic has won a host of honors since arriving in Manchester from Spartak Moscow in 2006, including four English titles and the European Champions League in 2008.
Despite this success, the former Red Star Belgrade center-back said he is still hungry to win and he is eyeing an FA Cup triumph to complete his collection of English winner's medals.
"If you want to play for Manchester United you have to win everything," he said.
"You have to be successful, otherwise, new players come and you have to fight for your place. I still have hunger to play, hunger to win the trophies, and I'm really happy.
"I would really like to win the FA Cup as well. I haven't won the FA Cup yet, this is the trophy I really want to win."
Since signing for United, Vidic has been under the guidance of the club's long-serving manager Alex Ferguson.
The veteran Scot has forged a reputation as one of the game's top coaches during his 25 years with the club, winning 12-top flight championships, five FA Cups and twice leading United to Champions League glory.
"I have to say what he brings to the club is stability," Vidic said of Ferguson. "He builds a road which all players follow.
"This is a great thing. At other clubs you have the problems in terms of the change of the coaches; they are changing new players and coaches. Sometimes they really have the problem, to build the team."
Vidic will lead his United teammates out for their first Premier League match of the season against West Bromwich Albion at The Hawthorns on Sunday.
