(CNN Student News) -- September 12, 2013
On Thursday's edition of CNN Student News, we recap President Obama's speech regarding Syria, and we share one U.S. senator's response. We also report on violence in Libya, and we show how Americans remembered the victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. And in an industry focused on looks, one model hopes to make a difference by standing out.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
To what extent do the media -- television, movies and magazines -- help define the public's notion of beauty?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. diplomatic proposal
2. Benghazi, Libya
3. "breaking the mold"
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. In which country are the U.S. secretary of state and the Russian foreign minister meeting to discuss Syria?
2. What is the name of the building being constructed on the New York site of the 9/11 terrorist attack?
3. What occupation do Joan Smalls, Gisele Bündchen and Coco Rocha have in common?
Discussion Questions:
1. Did hearing parts of the president's speech and a congressman's response influence how you view the subject of Syria? Why or why not?
2. How might public ceremonies honoring the victims of a terrorist attack help their families and the other people who attend?
3. In what ways do you think that Shaun Ross, the model featured in the report, "breaks the mold" in the fashion industry? What was your reaction to his story? What do you think has most influenced Americans' perceptions of beauty?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Europe
Geneva, Switzerland
Africa
Benghazi, Libya
North America
New York City; Washington, D.C.; Shanksville, Pennsylvania
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
