(CNN)Fox and the TV Academy's choice for this year's Emmy host is Andy Samberg. The actor and comedian, star of the network's "Brooklyn Nine-Nine," will emcee the live awards show on Sept. 20 — marking his first time hosting a major television event.
"Buckle your seat belts, Emmy viewers!," said Samberg in a statement. "Like, in general you should buckle your seat belts in your car. In fact, even if you're not an Emmy viewer, you should buckle your seat belt. It can be dangerous on the road. Also, if you're not an Emmy viewer, you should strongly consider becoming one this year, because I'm hosting, and it's gonna be a wild ride. So buckle your seat belts."
Read More: Emmy Comedy Clarification: TV Academy Says Rule Changes "Just a Start"
Samberg isn't a stranger to award shows. He joined Lonely Island collaborators Jorma Taccone and Akiva Schaffer in a Oscars performance just last month. He also took home a 2014 Golden Globe for his work on "Brooklyn" and, of course, nabbed an Emmy for himself for writing "Saturday Night Live" tune "D--- in a Box."
Read more: The uncensored, epic, never-told story behind 'Mad Men'
"The moment the Emmy Awards' host was brought up, we said it had to be Andy," said Fox Television Group chairmen and CEOs Gary Newman and Dana Walden. "He is fearless, hilarious, an award-winning comedian, singer, writer and actor with incredible live TV experience. We know he'll deliver the laughs and give viewers an incredible night they will enjoy."
Getting his start on "Saturday Night Live," Samberg becomes the latest alum of the show to move into hosting. NBC had Seth Meyers perform the duties last year, and Tina Fey and Amy Poehler just wrapped their three-year stint hosting the Golden Globes — to much critical acclaim.
Read more: Fox plots "Empire" Season 2: Lee Daniels courts Oprah, pushes for less "opulence"
"It's wonderfully fitting that we have Andy Samberg, an Emmy Award winner himself, as our host for this year's Primetime Emmy Awards," added TV Academy chairman and CEO Bruce Rosenblum, chairman and CEO of the Television Academy. "Andy has excelled in all aspects of the television universe, both from behind and in front of the camera. His humor, insights and charisma will be an exciting addition to our annual celebration of television's best and brightest."
Returning to Sunday night, Fox will air the Emmys from Los Angeles' Nokia Theatre L.A. LIVE on Sept. 20 at 8 p.m. E.T.
©2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
