Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone has rejected reports that the elite motorsport's owner CVC Capital Partners may sell up.
Media mogul Rupert Murdoch is lining up a bid along with Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, according to Sky News -- which is owned by Murdoch's News Corp.
But the 80-year-old Ecclestone, who runs F1 on behalf of CVC since selling his rights to the private equity firm in 2006, said such a deal would not be in the commercial interests of the sport.
"Formula One is not for sale. And, anyway, we would not sell to a media company because it would restrict the ability to negotiate with other broadcasters," he told British newspaper The Times on Wednesday.
Ecclestone, who first secured the rights to negotiate television contracts for races in the late 1970s, said News Corp had not made any approach to CVC.
"If they were interested for sure they would have called me and they haven't," he told Bloomsberg.
"If someone was to come along with an enormous offer, a lot more than it were worth, then they have to look at it. They have never talked about selling, though."
The current Concorde Agreement between the F1 teams expires next year, and Ferrari -- one of eight marques on the grid who made a failed breakaway bid in 2009 before signing the deal -- is reportedly among the parties seeking to wrest control of the sport from Ecclestone.
The British entrepreneur has been helping German prosecutors investigating Gerhard Gribkowsky, who handled F1's sale to CVC five years ago.
Gribkowsky, who has been arrested under suspicion of fraud, is a former employee of state-run BayernLB -- which had a stake in Formula One up to 2006.
"I have been co-operating with the State Prosecution Office's investigation of the affairs of Dr. Gribkowsky since the outset," Ecclestone said in a statement last week.
"When I was informed that there was a first suspicion in relation to my perceived involvement in the matter, I went to see the Senior State Prosecutor and her team in Munich earlier this month to clear up any allegations against me.
"I am confident that when the full facts have been established, I will be exonerated of blame for any wrongdoing."
