"Orange Is the New Black," "True Detective" and "Cosmos" picked up Emmys as TV's awards season began, while -- appropriately -- "Saturday Night Live" added to its four-decade-long haul with five more honors at the Creative Arts Emmys.
HBO won the most awards of any network, with 15. The cable channel is a division of Time Warner, as is CNN.
The awards, held Saturday night at Los Angeles' Nokia Theatre, were mainly dedicated to technical categories, though there were several given out for acting, writing and performing.
Uzo Aduba, who plays "Crazy Eyes" Warren in "Orange Is the New Black," won for guest actress in a comedy series.
One of her thank-yous went to her mother, who "came here from Nigeria to make a better life for her family."
Allison Janney of "Masters of Sex" won for guest actress in a drama series. Janney previously won four Emmys for "The West Wing."
After serving as a voice of all trades on "The Simpsons" for more than two decades, the versatile Harry Shearer finally won an Emmy for his performance(s) on the show for character voice-over. He voices such figures as Principal Skinner, the Rev. Lovejoy and the nefarious Montgomery Burns. Shearer couldn't attend, however: He's currently appearing in a play in London.
"The Simpsons" won three Emmys, but not the big prize for best animated series. That honor went to another Fox show, "Bob's Burgers" -- its first win in that category.
Among the wins for "SNL," which will begin its 40th season next month, was one for a former cast member who's gone on to bigger things: Jimmy Fallon picked up an Emmy for guest actor in a comedy series. Comic actor Joel McHale accepted for Fallon, who wasn't there.
"Fallon was unable to be here tonight, 'cause he was arrested," said McHale puckishly. "But we are happy to accept this award and will keep it forever."
HBO's "True Detective," which earned eight nominations, received four awards, including wins for makeup and credit design.
"Cosmos," the new version of the science series featuring astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson, also earned four Emmys. Two of the awards went to Alan Silvestri, who composed the music for the show. He didn't forget its host.
"I have two special thanks left," Silvestri said, according to Deadline.com. "Neil deGrasse Tyson" and "the voice of Neil DeGrasse Tyson."
CNN's "Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown" won for informational series or special.
The 66th Primetime Emmy Awards are scheduled for August 25. The show will air on NBC.
See more comedy content at CNN Comedy.
