(CNN)  -- Stuart Broad's stunning five wickets for no runs spell, including a hat-trick, restored England's hopes after Rahul Dravid's 34th Test hundred had put India in command at Trent Bridge Saturday.
England looked set to face a massive first innings deficit until Broad performed his heroics to wrap up the Indian innings for 288, a lead of 67.
The home side battled to 24 for one, losing Alastair Cook cheaply, by the close to trail by 43 with three days left of the second Test.
But it could have been so much worse for Andrew Strauss' men who won the first match of the series at Lord's in convincing fashion.
Dravid and Yuvraj Singh had taken India to 258 for four wickets with a stand of 128 until Broad struck.
He removed Yuvraj for 62, caught behind, then soon afterwards had India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni caught at second slip by James Anderson.
Next ball Harbhajan Singh was lbw, although the decision by South African umpire Marais Erasmus looked dubious with replays indicating he had hit the ball.
But there was no doubt about his hat-trick dismissal as he clean bowled Praveen Kumar.
Dravid went shortly afterwards to Tim Bresnan for an excellent 117, while Broad, who had earlier removed India's batting legend Sachin Tendulkar, wrapped up the innings to end with Test-best figures of six for 46 in 24.1 overs.
Broad, who top-scored in England's first innings of 221, was pleased to have performed his feat on his home ground.
"It's always nice to get a hat-trick anywhere but to get it at Trent Bridge is special," Broad told Sky Sports.
"We have to bat well tomorrow (Sunday) to set it up for ourselves."
Dravid, who shared an invaluable stand of 93 for the second wicket with VVS Laxman (54), admitted he had been constantly under pressure on a difficult wicket.
"It was hard work, but the wicket did get easier than yesterday.
"They have a good quality bowling attack and they tested us."
England need to win the four-match series by two clear matches to usurp India as the world's top-rated Test side.
