Brazil secured their first win of the 2011 Copa America with a 4-2 victory against Ecuador on Wednesday to seal their progression to the quarterfinals of the competition in Argentina.
Forwards Alexandre Pato and Neymar both scored twice in response to a brace from Ecuador's Felipe Caicedo to ensure Mario Manezes' Brazil finished top of Group B.
The eight-time tournament winners will now play Paraguay, who qualified from the same group as one of the two best-performing third-place teams.
The game's opening goal arrived after 27 minutes, when AC Milan's Pato met Andre Santos' cross with a powerful header.
Inter Milan goalkeeper Julio Cesar gifted Ecuador an equalizer 10 minutes later, when the 31-year-old allowed Caicedo's drive to slip through his legs into the net.
Santos' Neymar put Brazil back in front four minutes into the second half, when he latched onto Ganso's pass to coolly place the ball beyond Marcelo Elizaga in the Ecuador goal.
But Ecuador responded once again, Levante's Caicedo finding the bottom corner with a crisp shot from the edge of the penalty area.
Pato, 21, restored the five-time world champions' advantage with his second goal of the game, the former Internacional striker reacting quickest after Elizaga spilled Neymar's drive in the 61st minute.
It was Neymar who confirmed Brazil's triumph with 19 minutes remaining when he converted from close-range after right-back Maicon's low cross.
Brazil face Paraguay in the city of La Plata on Sunday, after Gerardo Martino's side shared an exciting 3-3 draw with Venezuela.
Venezuela took the lead with five minutes gone when forward Salomon Rondon found the net with a stinging 20-yard shot.
Defender Antolin Alcaraz equalized for Paraguay when he slammed home following a goalmouth scramble, and Borussia Dortmund's Lucas Barrios edged Paraguay ahead with a scrambled effort just past the hour mark.
Cristian Riveros looked to have made sure of the win for Paraguay with his 85th minute strike, but two goals in the last couple of minutes from Getafe's Miku and defender Grenddy Perozo earned Venezuela a draw.
Cesar Farias' Venezuela will play Chile on Sunday in San Juan for a place in the semifinals. The other quarterfinals see hosts Argentina take on Uruguay and Colombia face Peru.
