Weeks after flooding devastated farmland and homes in the Midwest, officials in five states said Friday that initial steps are under way for possible buyouts of property in flood zones.
Flooding from the Mississippi River surrounds a home in Foley, Missouri, in late June.
Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, Iowa and Missouri all are considering the option. Under the buyouts, residents who qualify could choose to sell their houses to the states or communities, with the Federal Emergency Management Agency supplying 75 percent of the cost.
The state of Iowa has sent a notice of interest for buyouts to affected communities, said Lucinda Robertson of the Iowa Homeland Security and Emergency Management Division.
Iowa has asked interested residents to respond by September 12, Robertson said. Once the responses are in, the state will review them and ask the eligible communities to fill out the necessary applications.
Illinois also is at the beginning of the buyout process, said Patti Thompson of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency. The state sent out letters this week to those affected by flooding to gauge interest, Thompson said, and will wait about a month to receive their responses before determining how much money each would receive from FEMA.
The state is about six to 12 months away from the actual buyout process, if interest warrants, she said.
In Indiana, people in several areas have shown interest in buyouts, according to Rachel Myer of the Indiana Department of Homeland Security, and many cities and counties have begun the application process.
Wisconsin Emergency Management spokeswoman Lori Getter said that state is in the "infancy stages" of what will be a one-year to 18-month process of buyouts. She said flooding affected about 20 communities, and some people still lack access to their homes.
In Missouri, two communities have expressed interest in the buyout process, according to Susie Stonner, a public information officer for the Missouri State Emergency Management Agency.
The flooding in the Midwest killed two dozen people and injured 148, according to FEMA. Some 35,000 to 40,000 people in several states have evacuated their homes.
