(CNN)  -- Bode Miller fulfilled his Olympic dream at last with a gold medal in the men's super-combined at Whistler Creekside on Sunday.
The flamboyant U.S star has been in superb form at the Vancouver Winter Games and his victory completes a full set of medals, after he claimed silver in the super-G and bronze in the downhill.
Miller, seventh after the downhill section, relegated pre-race favorite Ivica Kostelic of Croatia to the silver medal position after producing a superb slalom run.
Silvan Zurbriggen of Switzerland claimed the bronze medal ahead of teammate Carlo Janka, with reigning Olympic champion Ted Ligety of the United States back in fifth.
Super-G gold medalist Norway's Aksel Lund Svindal, quickest on the downhill, slid out near the finish to spark scenes of wild celebration as Miller realized the gold was his after drawing blank in the 2006 Winter Games in Turin.
SI.com: Gold medal proves Bode has finally come full circle
Miller, who snubbed the official U.S. ski team in 2007 and appeared on the brink of retirement, returned to the fold last year and prepared carefully for the Games.
He added to his two silvers from Salt Lake City in his first two events and finally made his breakthrough with another virtuoso display.
"When I passed the line I did my normal thing and stood for a second and I was like, 'that was unbelievable, I can't ask for anything more'," Miller told reporters.
"For my first Olympic gold, it was absolutely perfect."
Miller's combined time of 2:44.92 left him 0.33 seconds faster than Kostelic, who won silver in the discipline in Turin behind Ligety, who left himself with too much to do after a lackluster downhill display.
SKI CROSS
The first ever gold in the new Winter Olympic sport of ski cross went to Switzerland's Michael Schmid with Austria's Andreas Matt taking the silver and Audun Groenvold in the bronze medal position.
Canada's Christopher Del Bosco was the fourth member of the final but saw his medal hopes disappear when he crashed near the end of the final at Cypress Mountain.
BIATHLON
Russia's Evgeny Ustyugov took the first gold of the tenth day with a comfortable victory in the men's 15km mass start biathlon.
His flawless shooting display saw him cross the line ahead of France's Martin Fourcade and Slovakian Pavol Hurajt. Norway's Ole Einar Bjoerndalen failed in his bid for a sixth Olympic gold as poor shooting saw him finish 27th.
The women's 12.5km mass start event led to a second gold of the Games for Germany's Magdalena Neuner, who also took a silver in the sprint.
SPEEDSKATING
Ireen Wust of the Netherlands claimed the women's 1500m crown at the Richmond Oval as she got the better of home hope Christine Nesbitt in the final heat.
Nesbitt blew up on the final lap and failed in her bid for a second gold at the Games, finishing sixth but fellow Canadian Kristina Groves did take silver ahead of Czech Martina Sablikova.
