Jupp Heynckes has poured cold water on suggestions he could take over at Real Madrid by announcing he will take a break from football after leading Bayern Munich to a historic treble.
The veteran coach's team beat Stuttgart in the final of the German Cup last weekend to win a third major honor of the season, adding to the European Champions League and German Bundesliga trophies secured last month.
"The first thing I'm going to do is go on holiday," Heynckes, who first managed Bayern between 1987 and 1991, told reporters on Tuesday.
"I won't be taking up any engagement after July 1, neither here in Germany nor abroad. I'm going to withdraw, recover, and become a private individual."
Bayern announced in January that former Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola would take over the team for the 2013-14 season, with many presuming Heynckes would call time on his managerial career.
Blog: Can Chelsea go 'Back to the Future?'
But the style with which Bayern secured a trio of titles, including a 7-0 aggregate thrashing of Barca in the Champions League semifinals, led to the 68-year-old being mooted as a possible to successor to Jose Mourinho at Real Madrid.
It was announced Monday Mourinho is returning to his former club Chelsea on a four-year deal.
Heynckes led Real to Champions League glory in 1998 but was sacked for finishing fourth in the Spanish league. Paris Saint-Germain coach Carlo Ancelotti has also been heavily linked with the Madrid vacancy.
Heynckes began his third spell as Bayern coach in 2011, replacing the sacked Louis van Gaal after the club had limped to a third-place finish in the Bundesliga.
The former West Germany player also took charge of the team for five games in 2009 following the dismissal of Jurgen Klinsmann.
"The coaching job at FC Bayern costs a huge amount in terms of resolve, power and energy," Heynckes said. "Especially over the last few weeks, I've sensed that I've been at the limit. It was incredibly demanding, incredibly all-encompassing.
While Heynckes distanced himself from any current vacancy, he refused to rule out a future position, adding: "I have something personal against finality."
"Of all of us, he's the one who deserves his vacation the most," declared Bayern chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge. "The entire club is eternally grateful to Jupp. There couldn't be a better or more deserved way to say farewell."
Bayern president Uli Hoeness echoed Rummenigge's sentiments, saying Heynckes' achievements had cemented his place in the club's history.
"Our friend is probably leaving Munich, but that won't end our friendship. It's become even deeper," Hoeness said.
