The rapper 50 Cent brought a little holiday cheer and Thanksgiving food to New Yorkers hit hard by Superstorm Sandy.
Curtis Jackson, who goes by the name 50 Cent, grew up in South Jamaica, Queens, lent a hand to feed Sandy victims at the Our Table is Yours event at the Cipriani Restaurant in Lower Manhattan on Wednesday.
"Having Sandy hit New York -- you wanna get out and make sure everybody understands that you care about it," he said.
The event provided meals to more than 1,000 New Yorkers impacted by Superstorm Sandy and was a collaborative effort between Food Bank for New York City, Feeding America, the Food Network, the Cooking Channel and Southern Wine and Spirits of America.
Despite Sandy, Queens family gives thanks together
Buses transported guests to Cipriani, where they enjoyed meals prepared by professional chefs. Food included Thanksgiving favorites like turkey, mashed potatoes, veggies and plenty of desserts. Guests also were given a prepared meal to take home and gift cards to purchase essentials.
A champion in the fight against hunger, 50 Cent works with Feeding America, the nation's leading domestic hunger relief charity.
After a trip to Africa, he became impassioned to spread awareness and fight world hunger.
"Hunger's not a third world issue. It's a world issue. Within America one in six Americans actually go hungry. You've got more than one in five kids experiencing hunger or they're surviving on just their school lunch," he said.
To help achieve a goal of eradicating hunger, 50 Cent provides 250 meals to Feeding America for every pair of headphones purchased online through his company, SMS Audio.
Volunteers help Sandy victims start over
As for his own Thanksgiving, he loves turkey and stuffing, but his favorite dish is canned cranberry sauce.
"You've gotta have it... I look forward to that particular portion of the meal," he said.
To get involved this holiday season and make a donation to Food Bank for New York City's Hurricane Sandy relief efforts click here.
To purchase a pair of the 50 Cent SMS Audio headphones and provide 250 meals to Feeding America, please click here.
