(CNN Student News) -- February 16, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Afghanistan • Georgia • China
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: As the three-day weekend was winding down, we were here at the CNN Center last night, putting together your Tuesday edition of CNN Student News. You know who I am; let's get right to today's headlines!
First Up: Afghan Offensive
AZUZ: Making progress, but there's still a long way to go. That is how one reporter in Afghanistan described a military offensive there. The goal of Operation Moshtarak, which means "together" in the local language, is for coalition and Afghan troops to work together in order to remove the Taliban from Helmand province. The militant group has a strong presence in that region. And this is the largest military operation since 2001, when the war in Afghanistan started. It includes about 15,000 troops. And one thing they're trying to do is draw Taliban fighters into combat. Commanders say they expect that to last a while. But one of the challenges in fighting the Taliban is doing so without hurting civilians. On Sunday, 12 Afghan civilians were killed when a coalition rocket hit the building they were in. Military officials said the troops were aiming for the right building; what they didn't know is that there were civilians inside of it.
Challenges Abroad
AZUZ: The war in Afghanistan is just one of the challenges facing President Obama right now. Another one: Iran. Over the weekend, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said she believes that the Middle Eastern nation is becoming a "military dictatorship," and she thinks that could be dangerous for other countries. Jill Dougherty examines that issue and some of the other global challenges facing the U.S. president.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Two costly wars, an economy still reeling, no health care reform yet, and a political upset in Massachusetts torpedoes his Senate supermajority.
U.S. PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: We're trying to, you know, bring some change that you can believe in.
DOUGHERTY: With his change agenda bogged down at home, what hope is there for President Obama's change agenda abroad?
DOUG PAAL, CARNEGIE FOUNDATION FOR INTL. PEACE: When American presidents get weak at home, it really does affect their ability to act abroad.
DOUGHERTY: In his first year, Mr. Obama visited 21 countries. His mantra: engagement, even with your enemies.
HILLARY CLINTON, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: It's almost hard to remember how poorly much of the world viewed the United States when President Obama came into office.
DOUGHERTY: The secretary of state says she sees a lot of positive trends. But the score card, so far, is mixed. Iran still hounds its opponents and defends its nuclear program, now boasting it's enriching its own uranium. North Korea still won't return to nuclear talks. The Mideast peace process is stalled. Even the president's friends say America's credibility is on the line.
KING ABDULLAH II, JORDAN: I personally believe that the president is extremely committed to it, but we also know that America is dealing with many other issues internally, health plan, other issues. Massachusetts was, I think, something that hit the news.
DOUGHERTY: But after the reset button was pressed with Russia, relations did improve. Moscow is helping the U.S. to pressure Iran and it's close to a new arms control agreement with Washington. But in Beijing, cyber attacks against U.S. companies like Google, disputes over arm sales to Taiwan, and a controversial visit to the White House this week by the Dalai Lama have relations with China at a boil. Surprisingly, the administration does claim one success, in a war Barack Obama opposed.
U.S. VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: I am very optimistic about Iraq. I think it's going to be one of the great achievements of this administration.
ROBERT GIBBS, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Putting what was broken back together and getting our troops home, which we intend to do in August of this year.
(END VIDEO)
Luge Accident
AZUZ: When we recorded this show last night, the U.S. was leading the medal count at the 2010 Winter Olympics. But the Vancouver games got off to a tragic start. A 21-year-old Olympian from the Republic of Georgia, a country between Russia and Turkey, died in an accident on the luge track. A memorial was set up for Nodar Kumaritashvili. Just a couple hours before the opening ceremonies, he was on his last training run at the Whistler Sliding Center when he lost control of his sled and crashed. The International Luge Federation said the crash happened because Kumaritashvili didn't make up for a mistake he'd made on his run. A lot of people are afraid this course was just too fast, and since the crash, Olympics workers have shortened it and made it safer by building up the walls near where the crash happened.
Multi-Car Pile-Up
AZUZ: It's been relatively warm in Vancouver, but winter weather is taking a toll on parts of the U.S. Look at this pile-up that shut down a Kansas overpass on Sunday! Unbelievable. Dozens of cars involved, traffic shut down for hours. There were injuries in this wreck, but everyone did survive. This is really interesting, though: We want you to take a listen to what it was like to be in the pile-up.
SAM SKRAMSTAD, MOTORIST IN CAR PILE-UP: It happened too fast. It was just there and I headed for the guardrail and it didn't move. And then I just kept getting nailed.
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Ms. Smith's 7th grade class in Phoenix, Arizona! How many animals are included in the Chinese calendar? If you think you know it, shout it out! Is it: A) 5, B) 7, C) 12 or D) 24? You've got three seconds -- GO! There are 12 animals associated with the Chinese calendar. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Chinese New Year
AZUZ: And we are now in the Year of the Tiger! Sunday marked the start of the Chinese New Year, and this is actually year 4708 on the Chinese calendar. And as it began, China's premier, Wen Jiabao, praised the country for working through the worldwide economic crisis, but he warned that this new year could be a complicated one. The traditional celebrations to ring in the Year of the Tiger were massive. Parades, performances, fireworks seen all over the country and in other parts of the world. Hundreds of millions of people across China traveled home for the holiday. That is why some folks believe that Chinese New Year is the world's biggest, annual human migration.
Mardi Gras
AZUZ: Another big celebration taking place in New Orleans right now. It's Mardi Gras! What you're seeing here is the Bacchus parade. It's one of the many events that are part of the celebration. And the King of Bacchus, at least this year, is Saints quarterback Drew Brees! The city of New Orleans is still riding high after their recent Super Bowl win. And the crowds came out to see Brees, who was the MVP of the game, and maybe catch one of the mini-footballs he threw from the float. Mardi Gras is a French name that means Fat Tuesday. It's celebrated the day before Ash Wednesday, which is tomorrow, and that -- Ash Wednesday -- marks the start of Lent.
Shoutout Extra Credit
MATT CHERRY, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for a Shoutout Extra Credit! Which of these equations represents acceleration due to gravity on Earth? You know what to do! Is it: A) a2 + b2 = c2, B) g = 9.8 m/s2, C) a = pi r2 or D) E = mc2? Rewind the clock to three seconds -- GO! Acceleration due to force of Earth's gravity is equal to 9.8 meters per second, squared. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout Extra Credit!
Math and Science
AZUZ: So, can getting rid of gravity help inspire education? One company thinks so, and it's hoping students will too. Some folks are worried that the U.S. is falling behind in math and science because not enough students are interested in the subjects. They're hoping that seeing this will change that. It's a program where teachers float around in zero gravity and prove there's a fun side to math and science. Brian Todd recently went along for the ride.
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: How does it work? We're seated when the plane first starts to climb. Then, after we level off, we all have to lie on the floor of this padded cabin. We're taken on a series of so-called parabolas. The plane makes a steep climb, then practically dives for about 30 seconds. We have to lie on our backs. We're about to do the first parabola, called a partial parabola. We're going to be at about one-third of our body weight when this thing hits its peak and then starts descending. When the plane dives, we're at zero gravity.
Promo
AZUZ: Cool stuff. Well, you are looking at CNNStudentNews.com, and this is where you can find every show we've done so far this school year. On the right-hand side of your page, you see where it says "Archive" right in the middle there under "Shows and Transcripts"? You click that, it'll get you to our archive; you can see every show. We're also available online on iTunes. Just search "CNN Student News."
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go, check out one of those typical, college bonding moments... when everyone runs at full speed at each other and then tries to nail everyone else with a ball! It's dodgeball, and what might be the world's biggest dodgeball game ever. It looks awesome. It happened at the University of Alberta in Canada. With 400 balls and more than 1,200 players, we're not sure how the organizers could really keep score of it.
Goodbye
AZUZ: We guess that when anyone asked, they just dodged the question. That wraps up today's edition of CNN Student News. We will be back tomorrow and look forward to seeing you then.
