CNN Digital and CNN International have triumphed at the Foreign Press Association Media Awards, winning three categories.
CNN won the Print & Web Feature, Arts & Culture, and Story of the Year by a Full Member of the FPA awards.
The CNN documentary World's Untold Stories: Secrets of the Belfast Project won News Story of the Year by a full FPA member. The judges described the documentary as "absolute dynamite, a terrific story and a fine piece of journalism."
The Arts & Culture award was given to Leonardo -- The Lost Painting, a documentary that explored the story behind the recent discovery of a Leonardo da Vinci painting. Judges praised the "love and lingering interest" that had gone into the piece, describing it as "a very well done cultural story."
The Print & Web Feature award was clinched by Mauritania: Slavery's Last Stand -- a CNN Digital feature that revealed the shocking extent of slavery in modern Mauritania. The judges remarked that the piece was "in some ways the most convincing and best edited of all the categories."
Tony Maddox, Executive Vice President of CNN International, said: "It is a significant honor for us at CNN to have our journalism recognized so comprehensively by the FPA. I couldn't be more proud of this testament to the expert story telling of our reporters."
Peter Bale, VP & General Manager, CNN Digital, said: "Mauritania: Slavery's Last Stand was part of CNN's commitment to the Freedom Project, in which the network has been prepared to be an advocate, not just a reporter. It's led to thousands being freed from slavery and raised awareness that this is very much a modern problem."
CNN was also nominated in the TV News category for its Syria: Inside Aleppo feature, and in the Digital Innovation category, for Open Story.
The global FPA Media Awards recognize excellence in print, web, radio and television journalism.
Full details of CNN's winning entries:
Story of the Year by a Full Member of the FPA
World's Untold Stories: Secrets of the Belfast Project
Nic Robertson, Ken Shiffman, and Samantha Weihl
Print & Web Feature
Mauritania: Slavery's Last Stand
John Sutter, Edythe McNamee
Arts & Culture
Leonardo -- The Lost Painting
Nick Glass, Tom Bouchier Hayes & Team
Nominations:
TV News
Syria: Inside Aleppo
Nick Paton-Walsh, Ricardo Garcia Vilanova, Joe Duran, Natasha Maguder
Digital Innovation
Open Story
CNN Digital Staff
