He came into the final major of the golf season in confident mood but Tiger Woods was well off the pace after his opening round at the PGA Championship.
The world No. 1, who won his fifth tournament of the 2013 season at the Bridgestone Invitational last week, had a poor final hole to end the day at 1-over-par, six strokes off the lead.
He was tied for 50th along with second-ranked Phil Mickelson, who won last month's British Open.
Masters champion Adam Scott and Jim Furyk, 2003 U.S. Open champion, shared the lead Thursday at 5-under 65.
Woods, a 14-time major champion, has gone five years without adding to his collection and started well at Oak Hill in Rochester, New York, sitting on 2-under after 12 holes.
But a bogey on the fourth hole -- his 13th having started on the 10th -- was added to by a double on his final hole and he slumped to an over-par tally.
Despite his disappointment over the closing clutch of holes, Woods was content with his performance.
"I'm still right there," Woods told reporters at a press conference. "I'm only six back and we've got a long way to go."
"I played really well. I just hit a bad iron shot at four and didn't get up and down.
"One loose nine iron and ended up not having much of a shot after a decent tee shot on nine. I drew no lie at all. I didn't even get over the bunker.
"I made a few par putts out there as well. The round realistically could have been under par easily."
Canada's David Hearn and England's former world No. 1 Lee Westwood also had a strong start to the championship, finishing at four-under to be tied for second. American Matt Kuchar and England's Paul Casey were among a group a shot back.
But Woods was, as ever, the main focus of attention on the first day, returning to the course where he produced his second worst display over 72 holes as a professional at the 2003 PGA Championship.
He failed to maximize favorable conditions during his morning round.
"The first hour there was no wind," Woods said. "On top of that, with the rain here, it softened everything up. That rain certainly helped things."
Furyk took full advantage to record six birdies in his first round, a bogey on the final hole not dampening his enthusiasm.
"Usually disappointed with ending the day on a bogey but 65 at the PGA is not so bad, so I'm feeling pretty good," Furyk told reporters.
"I'm happy I played a good round, but I'm wise enough and have been there enough to know it's only Thursday. Right now we're jockeying for position.
"You don't win the golf tournament on Thursday. I know that. Just happy with playing well and putting myself in a good position."
Defending champion Rory McIlroy was tied for 22nd after carding a 69, in a big group including the 2011 winner Keegan Bradley of the U.S., that year's British Open champion Darren Clarke and Spain's Sergio Garcia.
"I played a really good front nine," McIlroy told CNN. "A couple of early bogeys halted that momentum but I made a good birdie again on 12.
"I played OK. I gave myself a couple of chances on the way in, didn't quite take them but to shoot a one-under opening round 69 here is definitely not a bad start."
Justin Rose, who won his first major title at June's U.S. Open, was tied for 11th on 68 in a group including Germany's former world No. 1 Martin Kaymer, Spanish veteran Miguel Angel Jimenez and Americans Steve Stricker, Bill Haas and Jason Dufner.
