Injured Formula One star Robert Kubica needs more surgery before he can start rehabilitation following his crash at the weekend.
The Polish driver's team said the 26-year-old would remain in hospital for up to three weeks after the operations in Italy, where he had been competing in a rally event.
"On Thursday, Robert should undergo some more surgery in order to stabilize the fractures to his right shoulder and right foot," Lotus Renault announced on its website on Tuesday.
"Three or four days later, another operation will allow his elbow fracture to be stabilized as well. Robert will remain at the Santa Corona Hospital for two to three weeks. A decision will then be taken about where he should go in order to continue his rehabilitation."
The Britain-based team said Kubica, its lead driver ahead of the 2011 season, was determined to fight back from the multiple fractures. He is being treated at Santa Corona hospital in Pietra Ligure.
Kubica badly hurt in rallying crash
"Yesterday, Robert was able to talk to his doctors and relatives. His medication makes him sleep quite a lot, but he is responding to all external stimulation," the statement continued.
"He has reacted well to the news about his condition and is ready to fight for his comeback."
Kubica required several transfusions during the initial seven-hour emergency procedure to stabilize his condition after losing a lot of blood following the high-speed accident.
Renault and Lotus launch new cars
By Monday, Renault reported that he could move his fingers, while his surgeon Dr. Mario Igor Rosello said the lack of swelling or infection on his right forearm was also a "good sign."
Kubica, who hit a guard rail when he lost control of his Skoda Fabia during the Ronde de Andorra rally, is certain to miss the start of the F1 season in Bahrain on March 13.
In his place, Lotus Renault could promote one of the team's two reserve drivers -- Bruno Senna, who raced for HRT in 2010, and Frenchman Romain Grosjean -- to line up on the grid with young Russian Vitaly Petrov.
