As far as celebrations go, it was hardly the most fitting end to a night of joy for Real Madrid football fans.
Having waited 18 years to get their hands on the Copa del Rey -- or King's Cup -- trophy, defender Sergio Ramos made worldwide headlines by dropping it under the open-top bus carrying his teammates on a victory parade through the Spanish capital.
The triumphant players had returned home immediately from Valencia after beating arch-rivals Barcelona 1-0 in extra time in the final of the country's knockout competition on Wednesday night.
Club vice-captain Ramos was stood at the front of the bus holding the cup, which Real had not won since 1993, when it slipped from his grasp and under the front wheel of the vehicle.
There is no official word on whether the cup, which is 78 centimeters tall and weighs nine kilograms, maintained any damage during the incident. But a Real spokeswoman told CNN that it was being fixed.
After the mishap, Spanish World Cup winner Ramos used social media website Twitter to reassure fans and say the trophy was undamaged.
"Hehehehe ... everyone, don't worry, it's fine ... Hope you have a good day," the 25-year-old wrote.
The Spain World Cup winner also joked: "What happened with the Cup was a misunderstanding, it didn't fall ... it jumped when we got to Cibeles (a square in Madrid) and it saw so many Madridistas (Real fans)..."
The King's Cup has been competed for since 1902, with Real winning the trophy on 18 occasions.
Ronaldo gives Jose Mourinho his first trophy at Real
Federico Alegre is the owner of the "Joyeros y Trofeos Deportivos Alegre" trophy and jewelry shop which made the cup Ramos dropped.
Alegre revealed that there are two versions of the cup and, in his opinion, the potentially damaged one could be beyond repair.
"When (the federation in charge of Spanish football) organizes an event as important as this one, there is always a Plan B," he told Spanish radio station CadenaSER.
"So regarding the trophy, there was also a Plan B. With the little amount of time I have been able to evaluate it, I would say it is practically a 'complete wreck.' "
The blemish-free version of the cup is already on display at the nine-time European champions' Santiago Bernabeu stadium.
The defeat of the Catalan outfit meant Portuguese coach Jose Mourinho has now won a major honor in each country he has coached in -- Portugal, England, Italy and now Spain.
Is Mourinho the master of mind games?
The 48-year-old spoke of his pride in the wake of Real's success and his pleasure to have ended a three-year trophy drought at the Bernabeu.
"It is always good to win titles," Mourinho told the club's official website.
"Someone called me a 'title coach' a few days ago. I like the name. That is my job. I am proud of my team, the fans and my people.
Despite Wednesday's win, Mourinho insisted the result would have no bearing on the upcoming European Champions League semifinal between the two teams.
"We will see in the Champions League. Each [match] will be different. We will see what happens between two great teams over the course of two matches. Anything is possible."
Real and Josep Guardiola's Barca will play the first leg of their last-four tie in Madrid on Wednesday, before the return match at the Camp Nou on May 3.
The winner will face England's Manchester United or German side Schalke in the final of Europe's premier club competition at Wembley Stadium, London on May 28.
