WASHINGTON (CNN)  -- A dream come true, a part of history, an accomplishment for all of us.
Margret Forsythe, left, and Evadey Minott came to Tuesday's inaugural events from Brooklyn, New York.
Millions of people gathered on the Mall in Washington on Tuesday to celebrate the inauguration of the 44th U.S. president, Barack Obama.
"This is America happening," said Evadey Minott of Brooklyn, New York. "It was prophesied by [the Rev. Martin Luther] King that we would have a day when everyone would come together. This is that day. I am excited. I am joyful. It brings tears to my eyes."
L.J. Caldwell of Somerset, New Jersey, said Obama's inauguration capped five decades of struggle for African-Americans.
"When you think back, Malcolm [X] fought. Then we come a little further, Rosa Parks sat. Then come up a little further and Martin [King Jr.] spoke. Then today, President Obama ran and we won."  Watch Obama say Americans have "chosen hope over fear" »
Kim Akins, 43, of Chicago, Illinois, who lives just blocks from Obama's home, made the trek to Washington with her 8-year-old daughter, Chloe.
Vanessa Reed, of Centerville, Virginia, took her daughters to spot on the inaugural parade route.
"I was going to take my daughter here if it was the last thing I did," she said. "It's breathtaking. ... It's overwhelming."
Vanessa Reed, of Centerville, Virginia, who brought her two young daughters to the inauguration, reflected on Obama's speech as she sat with her daughters across from the presidential reviewing stand at the end of the parade route.
"It was beautiful. It spoke to the issues of the moment," said Reed, who worked for the Obama campaign. "I am proud this country saw what we saw in him."
Not as impressed, her youngest daughter, Brooke.
"It was so boring," the 4-year-old said.
Patrick Bragg, 44, of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, contemplated the day as he tried to stay warm standing over steam vents on H Street.
Patrick Bragg says he rode a bike 18 miles to get to downtown Washington on Tuesday morning.
"I've been sitting here thinking -- it's really beautiful," said Bragg, who said he rode a bike 18 miles from Bethesda, Maryland, to attend Tuesday's ceremonies. "This is what I would consider the true representation of all of America. Obama gives everyone space at the table."
Some of those attending Tuesday recalled how they were part of the effort that culminated in the historic day.
"You remember why you are doing it all, why you were working so hard on the campaign making phone calls, knocking on doors and getting slammed in the face sometimes," said iReport contributor Vanessa Palmer of the University of South Florida in Tampa.
Howard University student Shakuwra Garrett, 18, said she felt like "a part of history."
"I can carry this with me the rest of my life," Garrett said. "It's an accomplishment for all of us."
The accomplishment crossed borders and oceans for some of those at Tuesday's inauguration.
"The dream came true," said Fatima Cone, 39, who came to the U.S. from Ivory Coast, where her mother wears an Obama T-shirt.
She conveyed the excitement her family feels in West Africa.
"The fight is the same for all blacks. It's the same story. It's the same fight wherever you come from," Cone said.
Canadians Peter and Susan Butler drove down from Toronto, Ontario, to see the event and "support the American people." iReport.com: Are you in Washington? Share your story
"This is a world event," Susan Butler said. "We can tell our grandchildren we were here."
Brtion Simon Ginty called the Obama inauguration "an international moment."
Simon Ginty of Manchester, England, said the world was celebrating Tuesday.
"This is an international moment as well as an American moment. I'm excited to see how Obama changes things. I imagine things are gonna be on the up," Ginty said.
Eli Bracken, an iReporter from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, drove into Washington early Tuesday to try to see the inauguration, but large crowds kept him away from the Mall.
Instead, he watched on TV from a McDonald's restaurant on E Street near the Canadian Embassy. The eatery went silent during the inaugural prayer, he said.
"It was just cool that everybody knew they were witnessing something awesome," Bracken said. "There were people gathered around every car they could just to hear it."
Dartmouth College student Amarita Sankar, 18, watched Obama's speech on the grounds of the Washington Monument.
"When ever I hear him speak, I want to be a better person. That's what you want in a leader, " Sankar said.
Gerrard Coles waited with a throng outside St. John's Episcopal Church, where Obama and his wife, Michelle, went for a Tuesday morning prayer service.
"Everyone's down here -- hopefully to catch a glimpse of Barack, just for a split second," he said.  Watch as Obamas head to church »
Nearby was Bethesda, Maryland, 9-year-old Laura Bruggerman, waiting with her mother, Wendy, and father, Jeff.
"I want to see Obama. I think that would be really cool. I could tell all of my friends that I got to see him," the girl said.
The crowd tried to oblige, letting the children and shorter people move up front.
Margaret Trowelle of Jersey City, New Jersey, gets strangers to autograph an inauguration hat Tuesday.
Outside the church, Margaret Trowelle of Jersey City, New Jersey, showed off a hat she had signed by others she's met in the nation's capital.
"Everyone is so friendly," she said.
Benica Tripleti, from Eastern Kentucky University, was among a group of 54 people headed to the Mall. She said she had one goal -- "to see Obama's head."
Kathie Easom and Christine Hannon of upstate New York were looking to plant themselves on the Mall and watch the proceedings on a screen.
"It's a once in a lifetime event," Easom said.
Eight rows behind the inauguration stand, Sylvia Schoen of Phoenix, Arizona, waited in the morning cold.
"It's freezing. It's worth it. It's worth it," she said.  Watch the atmosphere surrounding the inauguration »
"Obama's cause is all about the future. I think that's why everyone's so excited right now," Schoen said. "It's like we can do anything. Look what we just did -- the people. The people did this. Not the politicians -- we did it."
Harvard University student Megan Starr, 21, was impressed with the crowd.
"I've never seen people excited about politics before," she said. "Usually they are politically apathetic, but people are getting involved."
Woodie Lee Durham of Buffalo, New York, says Tuesday marks a milestone for African-American influence.
In a seating section for the disabled on the Mall, Woodie Lee Durham of Buffalo, New York, said Tuesday was a landmark for African-American influence on America.
"It is no longer a question; this is the answer," Durham said.
IReporter Barbara Talisman, 48, of Chicago, watched Tuesday from a spot on the Mall near the American Museum of Natural History.
"The historical significance of today and importance of our work made it necessary for me to be here and not at home. I want to be a witness," Talisman said.
Corey Waters of Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania, and his two sons, Thad and Matthew, set out on their inauguration journey at midnight.
Waters said they hoped to get a spot near the Capitol and then find a second place later to see the inaugural parade.
"We want to be close to the swearing-in," Waters said as the three walked with the crowd to the Mall.  Watch an iReport of festivities on the Mall »
After the speech, Decatur, Alabama, pastor Regina May, sat on a bench near St. John's Church and looked ahead.
"I think he is fresh," she said of Obama. "He's more than just an idea man. I think he can carry out his plans, and I'm going to do all I can to help."
CNN's Adam Levine, Ed Hornick, Valerie Streit, Scott J. Anderson and Kristi Keck contributed to this report.
