Australian soprano Dame Joan Sutherland, dubbed "La Stupenda" by opera lovers, died Sunday at age 83 in her home in Switzerland after a long illness.
In a career spanning the last half of the 1900s, Sutherland twice won a Grammy for best classical performer, in 1961 and 1981.
Neil Portnow, president and CEO of the Recording Academy, described Sutherland as possessing "an organic and elegant voice with astonishing range, vibrance and sense of drama."
"Throughout her extraordinary four-decade career, she performed with such greats as Luciano Pavarotti and before audiences in opera houses across the globe. Her legacy lives on in the beautiful arias with which she graced the world," Portnow said in a written statement.
Her stage career began in 1951 in her native Sydney in a production of "Judith" by Eugene Goossens, according to a spokesman with her recording company, Decca Records. She signed with Decca in 1959.
Over the next 30 years, she made 40 recordings of 33 operas, as well as operatic highlights, anthologies and collections ranging from baroque rarities to songs by Noel Coward, a personal friend to her.
Sutherland was often accompanied on stage or in studios by mentor and husband Richard Bonynge, and regular vocal partners included mezzo-soprano Marilyn Horne and the tenor Pavarotti.
Her last stage appearance was with both performers in Act 2 of "Die Fledermaus" at The Royal Opera House in London, England's Covent Garden on December 31, 1989.
Her record company credits her with rising to international stardom in 1959 when she appeared in Franco Zefirelli's Covent Garden production of Donizetti's "Lucia di Lammermoor." During her career she sang the role of Lucia 233 times.
During the late 1950s and 1960s, she and Bonynge, whom she married in 1954, were at the forefront of a Handel revival. In 1960, during Venice, Italy, performances of Handel's "Alcina," a journalist nicknamed her "La Stupenda."
That same year, Sutherland paid homage to bygone prima donnae when she recorded "The Art of The Prima Donna," and the two-album set became a bestseller and won a Dutch Edison Award in 1961.
She resurrected a number of forgotten works and gave them new life on the stage and in the recording studio, including Massenet's "Le roi de Lahore" and "Esclarmonde," the latter being a favorite of hers.
During retirement, she mentored young singers and sat as a juror on international signing competitions.
She is survived by her husband; her son Adam and daughter-in-law Helen; and two grandchildren, Natasha and Vanya.
