It might be Oz, Kansas or simply somewhere over the rainbow.
While the destination may not be known, there's no doubt the blue gingham dress wore by Judy Garland, as Dorothy in "The Wizard of Oz," has a new home.
The price was not the broom of the Wicked Witch of the West, as the Wizard of Oz demanded from Dorothy to send her back home to Auntie Em in the classic 1939 movie. Rather, someone this weekend paid $480,000 for Dorothy's dress, according to Julien's Auctions.
The costume was one of several pieces of Hollywood history up for sale from Julien's auction house in Beverly Hills, California.
Two of the auction's biggest ticket items were traced to late actress and sex symbol Marilyn Monroe. A purple skirt worn in Canada by Monroe, as she was filming "River of No Return," sold for $50,000, while a gold blouse and matching Capri pants fetched $43,750.
Buyers of the items were not identified.
Other signature clothing auctioned off included a Steve McQueen racing jacket for $50,000, a dress Julie Andrews (as Maria) wore in "The Sound of Music" for $38,400, and a black gown worn by Jaclyn Smith of "Charlie's Angels" fame for $15,000.
The "Wizard of Oz" was responsible for another big seller during the two-day event. One auction winner shelled out $33,750 for a collection of studio and publicity images tied to the MGM film.
It remains to be seen if Dorothy's dress will be reunited with her ruby slippers.
The Academy Museum of Motion Pictures -- with the help of "angel donors" including actor Leonardo DiCaprio -- acquired one of four pairs of the iconic red shoes last February.
That set are called the "Witch's Shoes," because they were likely seen on the Wicked Witch of the East when Dorothy's house fell on her in the film, according to the Academy. They're also likely the pair Dorothy, as played by Garland, had on in close-ups, such as in the memorable scene when she clicks the heels of the red shoes three times to head home.
Previously on CNN.com: Bonnie and Clyde's guns go up for auction
