Geddy Kramer said he suffered from mental instability, frustration and depression.
But as the 19-year-old embarked on a planned massacre at a FedEx facility north of Atlanta, he expressed no sadness, no regrets.
"I'm in my happy place," Kramer wrote. "I'm in my happy place. I'm in my happy place."
These and other jarring statements attributed to Kramer, and released Friday to CNN, do not offer a specific reason why Kramer shot and wounded six people late last month at a FedEx package and delivery facility in Kennesaw, before turning a gun on himself.
They do, however, help paint a picture of a man who felt isolated, did drugs and had mental issues. The violent outburst wasn't the result of a sudden decision, he explained, but "more of a several-month snap."
"This wasn't the result of media brainwashing and subliminal messages," Kramer said. "This is my own doing. I'm a sociopath. I want to hurt people."
The Cobb County Police Department released the shooter's apparent thoughts in the form of a pair of brief handwritten notes. One labeled "final requests" was found in Kramer's vehicle outside the FedEx facility, and the other is a three-page note titled "My final thoughts on paper" that was in his house in nearby Acworth.
Shortly before 6 a.m. on April 29, Kramer entered the 500,000-square-foot facility and began shooting, according to police. Authorities fielded "numerous" 911 calls in the immediate aftermath, according to Cobb County Police Sgt. Dana Pierce, until Kramer apparently killed himself.
In the message later found in his car, Kramer said that his "first choice for my massacre would start with anyone who sold me drugs and a few others." He added that he'd tried "to get help from ...a therapist, but I've also medicated with several types of drugs, most of which were illegal."
Kramer insists that no music or video games spurred his attack, saying without elaborating that "this was personally and, I guess, to a small extent politically motivated."
"I'm not sad or sorry for the misery I've caused," he wrote.
Family is 'shocked and devastated'
