Cruising a luxurious superyacht with your own custom-built limousine onboard, ready for offshore jaunts, sounds like an experience fit only for royalty.
Likewise, lounging in your very own salon designed by one of the biggest fashion houses in the world could perhaps come with a lifestyle limited to supermodels.
But it need not be just for kings and queens or even leading fashionistas. The Sovereign superyacht can be anyone's, that is, if they have around $132m to spare.
Sovereign is the brainchild of Gray Design who insist the finer details of the superyacht would please monarchs around the world.
Gray Design specializes in high-end, luxury yachts that often incorporate designer cars. Sovereign is no exception with its sleek lines inspired by a limousine.
"We thought about a typical person on board one of these yachts and asked: how do they travel on land? Well limousine," says Gray Design CEO Eduard Gray. "It's a very unique concept in the yacht world."
The matching custom-built car is an added extra, but regardless if the new owner requests one or not, there will be space on the yacht for a garage to store their wheels whilst they are at sea. If the owner's car are left at home, the garage becomes an ideal area to store all the boat's toys such as jet skis.
Designers say production will start in the coming months. "The plans are so advanced that ship builders can bring production by the end of the year," says Gray. "It's not conceptual anymore; it's gone into the engineering stage."
The design team is now in talks with potential owners about special modifications to suit their tastes, including working with fashion house Armani to fit out the interiors.
Discussions are also underway to install a patch of grass out the back as a makeshift golfing green that can also be used for a play area for the potential owner's dog.
At the back end of the yacht, is a circular infinity pool that surrounds a reinforced glass helipad. The latter also acts as a skylight for the room below. There's space for ten guest suites, in addition to the owner's quarters, as well as a cinema, gym, nightclub and library.
But the Sovereign is not simply designed for luxury, she can reach speeds of up to 30 knots. "It's the most high performance 100 meter yacht ever," says Gray.
