(CNN Student News) -- September 10, 2013
The U.S. Congress is debating the issue of Syria, President Obama is planning a speech to the nation, and Russia is offering a proposal regarding Syria's chemical weapons. On Tuesday, CNN Student News examines how the crisis in Syria reached its current state. We also catch up on a young education activist. Plus, we report on the happiest nations in the world and the potential of pilotless planes.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Could Malala Yousafzai's story have an impact in places where education rights are limited? Explain.
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. education rights
2. Denmark
3. automation
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What events lead to Syria's civil war?
2. Why did Malala Yousafzai recently travel to the Netherlands?
3. What criteria did a recent survey use to rank countries' "happiness"?
Discussion Questions:
1. What advantages and disadvantages might a president face when addressing the public? Do you think that President Obama's scheduled speech will have an impact on public and congressional opinion concerning Syria? Why or why not?
2. What might be the pros and cons of using "pilotless" airplanes over traditional, manned planes? What other uses can you think of for the pilotless plane technology seen in the program?
3. What are your thoughts on the advice shared by high school students in the program? What is the best advice someone has given you? What did you do with it?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
Europe
Denmark
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
