(CNN)An Israeli border police officer has been detained in connection with the shooting death of a Palestinian teenager, an arrest that a human rights advocate described as "incredibly rare."
The police officer was arrested Tuesday, according to Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld. And on Wednesday, a judge extended the officer's detention six more days, according to a court order.
Siam Nowarah, the father of the late 16-year-old Nadeem Nowarah, called the arrest "a step in the right direction." At the same time, he noted the police officer still has not been formally charged, much less convicted and sentenced.
"When this gets in the court of law, then Israel has the chance to prove to the world that it is not above the law," the father said. "There can't be two laws for two people, meaning if an Israeli killed a Palestinian, would he get the same amount of prison time (as a Palestinian who killed an Israeli)?"
His son was one of two teenagers killed in the West Bank community of Beitunya on May 15, the anniversary of the "Nakba," the exodus of more than 700,000 Palestinians after the 1948 Arab-Israeli war.
Father blames Israeli military in Palestinian teens' deaths
Cameras that Fakher Zayed set up around his four-story Beitunya house showed Nowarah suddenly falling forward, landing briefly on his hands, then rolling over to lie on his back.
Within seconds, a crowd of Palestinians gathered to lift Nowarah and rush him to a waiting ambulance. According to a medical report, Nowarah was pronounced dead in a hospital less than two hours later, having suffered a single bullet wound that entered his chest and passed out his back.
CNN producer Kareem Khadder filmed the same clashes -- including video showing two Israeli security troops firing their rifles at Palestinian protesters at the same exact moment that Nowarah was shot.
In that video, it is not clear what kind of rounds the Israelis were shooting or whether their gunfire hit Nowarah. However, Khadder's camera shows that less than 15 seconds after one of these gunshots, Palestinians were already racing to put the fatally wounded Nowarah in the ambulance.
After a CNN report on the incident, the Israeli military suspended a soldier shown firing that day at demonstrators, according to an Israeli military source who asked not to be identified because of the continuing investigation. The source said the suspended soldier worked for the military's communications department and was not supposed to be shooting at all. It was not immediately clear what connection, if any, this soldier had to the arrested border police officer.
Source: Israel suspends soldier after Palestinian deaths
Security cameras captured the second fatal shooting that day of a Palestinian teen -- 17-year-old Mohammad Odeh Salameh -- just before 3 p.m., showing him suddenly fall to the ground just steps from where Nowarah was wounded.
Doctors pronounced Salameh dead on arrival at the hospital, with a bullet wound that had pierced his back and exited his chest.
No arrests have been made in connection with Salameh's death.
"The investigation is continuing," Rosenfeld said.
The Israeli human rights organization B'Tselem arranged for the exhumation of Nadeem Nowarah's body 15 days after his burial so that an autopsy could be performed.
Sarit Michaeli, from B'Tselem, told CNN that the autopsy revealed the "three fragments of a bullet and an entry and exit wound" were consistent with a live round, rather than rubber-coated bullets that Israeli forces periodically fire at protesters.
The bullet, found at the time of death in the teen's backpack, and the three bullet fragments, found in his body, were handed to Israeli investigators, Michaeli said. Investigators should be able to tell if the fragments came from that bullet and what weapon fired it, she added.
And experts were able to "calculate the firing angle from which the shot was taken" based on where the bullets entered and left the teenager's body, according to the human rights advocate.
Talking about the border police officer's arrest, Michaeli said, "(It is) very, very rare."
CNN's Michael Schwartz contributed to this report.
