(CNN Student News) -- Students will learn about the history and scope of the humanitarian crisis occurring in the Darfur region of Sudan.
Procedure
Direct student groups to multimedia resources to learn about the history and scope of the humanitarian crisis occurring in the Darfur region of Sudan. Pose the following questions to guide students' research:
After groups present their findings, ask students: What actions do you think that the Sudanese government, the U.N., the international community and the U.S. could take at this point in time to broker lasting peace and stability in the Darfur region?
Extension: Ask students: What lessons do you think that young people around the world might learn from the crisis in Darfur? Challenge students to draw upon their research to create an in-school campaign to educate their peers about this humanitarian crisis.
Correlated Standards
Civics
What is the Relationship of the United States to Other nations and to World Affairs?
Standard 22: Understands how the world is organized politically into nation-states, how nation-states interact with one another, and issues surrounding U.S. foreign policy
Level III Grade : 6-8
Benchmark 2: Knows the most important means used by nation-states to interact with one another (e.g., trade, diplomacy, treaties and agreements, humanitarian aid, economic incentives and sanctions, military force and the threat of force)
McREL: Content Knowledge: A Compendium of Standards and Benchmarks for K-12 Education (Copyright 2000 McREL) is published online by Mid-continent Research for Education and Learning (McREL) (http://www.mcrel.org/standards-benchmarks), 2550 S. Parker Road, Suite 500, Aurora, CO 80014
World History
Era 9 - The 20th Century Since 1945: Promises and Paradoxes
Standard 44: Understands the search for community, stability, and peace in an interdependent world
Level II Grade : 5-6
Benchmark 3: Understands efforts to improve political and social conditions around the world (e.g., the progress of human and civil rights around the globe since the 1948 U.N. Declaration of Human Rights; how the apartheid system was dismantled in South Africa and the black majority won voting rights; the progress made since the 1970s in resolving conflict between Israel and neighboring states)
Level II Grade : 7-8
Benchmark 9: Understands the motivations, moral imperatives, and goals of specific separatist movements around the globe and the potential impact on the affected populations
McREL: Content Knowledge: A Compendium of Standards and Benchmarks for K-12 Education (Copyright 2000 McREL) is published online by Mid-continent Research for Education and Learning (McREL) (http://www.mcrel.org/standards-benchmarks), 2550 S. Parker Road, Suite 500, Aurora, CO 80014
Keywords
Darfur, Sudan, humanitarian crisis, war, genocide, refugees, United Nations E-mail to a friend
