World soccer's governing body FIFA have confirmed that vice president Jack Warner has resigned from his position within the organization.
Last month Trinidadian Warner, along with fellow-FIFA member Mohammed bin Hammam, were provisionally suspended by FIFA's Ethics Committee, pending the outcome of an investigation of corruption allegations against them.
But, following 68-year-old Warner's resignation, that investigation will now not take place.
A FIFA statement read: "His resignation has been accepted and his contribution to international football and to Caribbean football in particular are appreciated and acknowledged.
"Mr Warner is leaving FIFA by his own volition after nearly 30 years of service, having chosen to focus on his important work on behalf of the people and government of Trinidad & Tobago as a cabinet minister and as the chairman of the United National Congress, the major party in his country's coalition government.
"The FIFA Executive Committee, the FIFA president and the FIFA management thank Mr Warner for his services to Caribbean and international football over his many years devoted to football at both regional and international level, and wish him well for the future.
"As a consequence of Mr Warner's self-determined resignation, all Ethics Committee procedures against him have been closed and the presumption of innocence is maintained," the statement continued.
Warner, the head of the Caribbean, North and Central American Federation (CONCACAF), and Asian football chief bin Hammam, were suspended after allegations that cash gifts of $40,000 were offered to the heads of CONCACAF's national associations in an attempt to defeat FIFA supremo Sepp Blatter in the presidential election earlier this month.
Chuck Blazer, general secretary of CONCACAF, reported possible misdeeds during the May 10 and 11 conference in Trinidad.
Blatter was subsequently elected unopposed for a fourth term as president and Warner and bin Hammam were suspended while an investigation into the claims continued.
