It's hard to believe that "The Cosby Show" premiered 30 years ago this month.
For eight seasons, beginning in 1984 and ending in 1992, the Huxtables made us laugh and love them all the more for the wonderful family life they portrayed.
Here are 10 of the show's moments that we just can't forget:
1. 'Night Time Is the Right Time'
No "Cosby Show" list is complete without this family performance, which featured the Huxtables lip-syncing the Ray Charles hit. Keshia Knight Pulliam stole our hearts as little Rudy Huxtable in this scene.
2. The wanna-be Gordon Gartrelle shirt
Gordon Gartrelle was actually a producer on "The Cosby Show," but for one episode his name was used as the designer whose fashion Huxtable son Theo wanted to replicate. His sister Denise tried -- with unfortunate results.
3. 'Hey Mon'
Poor Dr. Huxtable. He just wanted to get some rest after a long shift at the hospital when he met Denise's reggae-loving date. It was hilarious.
4. The Wonder of it all
Four words for you: "Jamming on the one." The family got a lesson in sampling from superstar Stevie Wonder as mom Clair sang.
5. Regular people
Theo tries to justify his bad grades with the kind of logic only a teen can muster. Dad Cliff very quickly destroys his argument and uses his classic line: "I am your father. I brought you in this world and I'll take you out!"
6. Big fun with The Wretched
We almost felt bad for Vanessa after she snuck off with some friends to a concert in Baltimore and then had to deal with the wrath of her mother.
7. Clair's rant
This time, it was Elvin, Sondra's boyfriend and eventual husband, who suffered a tongue-lashing from his future mother-in-law as she set him straight on the mechanics of the sexes.
8. Theo's earring
When Theo tried to prove his independence by getting an earring, he was left with an infected earlobe and punishment from his dad.
9. Get your dance on
A pair of Cliff's friends show the younger generation how to really get down.
10. The gift of Olivia
Rudy wasn't the only super cute tyke on "The Cosby Show." Raven-Symone joined in later seasons as Denise's stepdaughter Olivia. Watching her try to convince Cliff to tell her where her birthday present was hidden was adorable.
What was your favorite moment from the show? Let us know in the comments below.
30 years later, the Cosby sweater still rules
Bill Cosby: The influence continues
