Larry Flynt, porn publisher and erstwhile snoop into the sex lives of politicians, has offered a job to disgraced former U.S. Congressman Anthony Weiner.
Flynt, founder of Hustler Magazine, made the job offer in a letter that was published in The Huffington Post on Thursday.
"This offer is not made in jest," wrote Flynt.
"Just as we do not undertake insincere political crusades, we do not make insincere job offers."
Weiner could not be immediately reached for comment.
Where does Weiner go from here?
Flynt's job offer came within hours of the congressman's resignation on Thursday over a sexting scandal.
In the letter, Flynt offered to give Weiner a 20% raise above the salary he earned in the U.S. House of Representatives, ensuring the former congressman's medical benefits would match what he had received in office.
Flynt also offered to pay Weiner's moving expenses to Beverly Hills, California.
"While this employment opportunity is being offered in large part due to your qualifications and clear passion for making a change," Flynt wrote, "I feel that your unfortunate resignation is a prime example of unfounded political pressure and the hypocrisy that has invaded democracy in Washington, D.C."
The job offer was the second made by Flynt to a politician within the past year.
Recent political sex scandals
In October, he offered to hire Republican Carl Paladino after the socially conservative gubernatorial candidate garnered headlines over pornographic images circulated to friends and colleagues.
The tone of Flynt's purported job offer to Paladino was markedly different than Weiner's.
"It's clear that 'values purporting' Carl Paladino has a keen instinct for kinky sex," Flynt said in a news release at the time. "He is a natural pornographer who has a skilled eye for unusual views and acrobatics ... It's clear he's better suited to join our team than be the governor of the state of New York."
Paladino lost the election to Democrat Andrew Cuomo.
In 1998, during the impeachment proceedings against President Bill Clinton over the Monica Lewinsky affair, Flynt offered $1 million to anyone with evidence of sexual misconduct against Republican lawmakers leading the effort against Clinton.
He published some of the evidence he obtained.
