MACAU, China -- Pete Sampras rolled back the years to upset current world number one Roger Federer in an exhibition match in Macau on Saturday.
Sampras enjoyed the spoils of victory in Macau after two previous defeats to Federer.
Federer had one the two previous clashes in an Asian series in straight sets but was handed a 7-6 6-4 defeat in the finale.
American ace Sampras downplayed his victory, noting Federer was coming off a long season and that he was helped by his big serve and the fast indoor carpet surface.
He had only aimed to win one set during the three-match series.
"Let's not get carried away," he said at a news conference.
Sampras ruled out a comeback from retirement, telling the audience after the match, "I had my time in the 90s."
Federer tried to put on a positive spin on the loss, saying he wasn't embarrassed to lose to his idol, but still showed some disappointment.
"It's been tough beating my idol the last two times. I'm happy that he got me at least once," he said, but adding, "I hope we can do it again in the future. I'd like to get him back."
The two players have won a combined 26 Grand Slam titles, but Sampras, 36, retired five years ago after winning the U.S. Open in 2002.
Federer is coming off another outstanding season in which he won three grand slams and last week's Masters Cup in Shanghai.
"I'm sort of surprised. This guy can play tennis, you know," the Swiss player said after his loss Saturday.
Federer beat Sampras 6-4 6-3 in Seoul on Tuesday and edged the American 7-6 7-6 in Kuala Lumpur on Thursday.
In Macau, Federer was never able able to force a break point on the powerful Sampras serve, but had set points at 6-5 and 8-7 in the tiebreak.
But Sampras saved both and a run of three points, capped by a forehand winner, gave him the opener.
The ninth game of the second second proved vital as a forehand error by Federer gave Sampras a break point which he gratefully took with another fine forehand.
Sampras closed out the match as a Federer backhand return sailed long.
Federer said he thought Sampras could still beat the world's top five players on a fast surface.
Sampras then predicted that Federer could beat his record of most grand slam wins (14) "if not next year, pretty soon."
"He's a great, great player. He's got things in his game that I couldn't do," he said. E-mail to a friend
Copyright 2007 CNN. All rights reserved.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press contributed to this report.
