(CNN)  -- Chelsea manager Carlo Ancelotti has backed his £50 million ($80.5 million) striker Fernando Torres to live up to his price tag after the Spain striker's disappointing debut against his former club Liverpool.
Chelsea slumped to a 1-0 home defeat with Torres giving an ineffectual display on his debut at Stamford Bridge, being substituted just after the hour mark.
Torres wasted a chance in the second minute and his partnership with Didier Drogba did not live up to the pre-match hype.
But Ancelotti pleaded for patience, saying his new striker had been in training with his new teammates for just three days ahead of the English Premier League with Liverpool.
"Torres did a good job but we had difficulty to find space because Liverpool defended very well. They put three defenders in the middle and we couldn't attack them," Ancelotti told his club's official television channel.
"He has experience and confidence. He didn't show problems or nerves before the game. He was excited to play. We have to give him time to adjust to the shape. He will do it quickly."
The defeat leaves defending champions Chelsea still 10 points adrift of leaders Manchester United, with games running out but Ancelotti is hoping Torres and the other new signing, central defender David Luiz, will be up to the task.
'We have fantastic players with fantastic ability. It was a difficult game, obviously we are disappointed, but both Fernando Torres and David Luiz will be the future for this club,' Ancelotti added.
Torres admitted that Liverpool's tactics of deploying three central defenders had proved effective.
"They played with three at the back and maybe we weren't expecting that," he told Chelsea TV.
"But we have to keep fighting to the end and there are a lot of points still to be won," he added.
Meanwhile, Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish was delighted by his team's performance in a fourth straight win but dismissed talk of Torres' departure being an extra incentive.
"I came here to get three points, whether Carlo Ancelotti was playing up front or anyone else doesn't matter.
"He (Torres) had one shot on target when Jamie Carragher did a fantastic block tackle but I'm not here to talk any somebody else's players," he told reporters.
Liverpool have moved up to a season-high sixth in the standings after their superb recent run under Dalglish.
