(CNN Student News) -- October 10, 2014
Attention, economics and government teachers: Today's show leads off with a report on yesterday's stock market drop and follows up with an explainer on The Fed. For history and geography teachers, we're taking a couple minutes to explore how Hong Kong came to be a Special Administrative Region of China. And science and social studies should check out our report on enterovirus D68.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. According to the U.S. government's latest report, what is the country's unemployment rate?
2. How many stocks are currently included in the Dow Jones Industrial Average?
3. What U.S. president is seen in recently discovered footage of the 1924 World Series?
4. Rick Perry is the governor of what state, the first in the U.S. where someone was diagnosed with the Ebola virus?
5. What Swedish chemist invented dynamite and established prizes in the fields of medicine, physics and peace?
6. What Central Asian lake, once the world's fourth-largest, has been reduced by river diversion to a fraction of its former size?
7. In what body of water are officials searching for vanished Malaysian Airlines Flight 370?
8. What Asian country, which is recovering from Typhoon Phanfone, is bracing for another typhoon named Vongfong?
9. What health measurement are officials at five U.S. airports planning to take from travelers who've visited West Africa?
10. Radio chips measuring NFL players' direction, speed, fitness, and heat maps are planted in what part of their gear?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
