Rachel Gold and Anthony Barberio don't have much in common.
Rachel Gold  has applied for more than 650 jobs online but has had fewer than a dozen interviews.
Gold is 28 years old and worked in recruiting after graduating from college. Barberio is 46 and never went to college but made his way on Wall Street for 20 years.
Despite their differences, they have one thing in common: Both were laid off last year and still are looking for jobs.
Gold was laid off in November from a recruiting firm.
"I definitely didn't think that I'd be sitting here nine months later without employment," she says.
She has focused her job search on social networking Web sites, making contacts with recruiters that could someday lead to a job.
Each week, she sets up meetings with potential future employers even though there may not be jobs open at the time.
Gold also has applied for more than 650 jobs online but has had fewer than a dozen interviews from those inquiries.
Barberio has spent most of his effort since his August 2008 layoff with online searches, applying for hundreds of jobs with little result.
"I send my résumé, and then you don't hear nothing back," he says. "When you don't hear back from anybody, whether it's a yes or a no, or we received your résumé, you wonder where it goes."  Watch Barberio and Gold describe their efforts to find work »
Barberio has enlisted the help of several employment agencies with the hopes they'll be able to find a job for him in a brokerage firm. But he worries that when his unemployment benefits run out, he'll have to take any job he can get.
"I'm gonna put a deadline as to when I'm going to have to seriously look for something," he says, "whether it be a department store or something like that."
Until a job comes along, Gold has started a blog, KickedForward.com. It's based on the Kay Yow quote, "When life kicks you, let it kick you forward."
She discusses free and inexpensive activities she's found to do in New York while she has some extra time.
"It's difficult, but I'm just trying to be as optimistic as possible that I'll find a position soon," Gold says.
The national unemployment rate is 9.7 percent, and more than 6 million people are filing for unemployment benefits.
Despite the grim job market, both Gold and Barberio are seeing reasons to hope.
Gold says she's gotten a few more interviews recently. Barberio says he's seen more job openings in his industry, and he thinks one of them may be the perfect fit for him.
"I'm anxious to get back to work," he says. "Almost a year in a house can drive anybody crazy."
CNNMoney.com anchor Poppy Harlow contributed to this report
