Newcastle manager Alan Pardew's head-butt on an opposition player has landed him with an improper conduct charge by the English Football Association (FA) and the prospect of a lengthy ban.
As widely expected, the FA acted swiftly Monday to charge the 52-year-old Pardew, who has until March 6 to respond.
"Due to the serious violent and/or aggressive nature of the reported behavior this case has been designated as non-standard," a statement on the official FA website said.
Newcastle's English Premier League match Saturday at Hull City's KC stadium was in the 72nd minute when Pardew was involved with an altercation with the home side's David Meyler, who was retrieving a ball for a throw in.
Pardew, who had been standing in his side's technical area, made a forward movement with his head, which was spotted by referee Kevin Friend, who sent him to the stands.
Newcastle won the match 4-1, but within hours of the match finishing the club took disciplinary action against Pardew, fining him £100,000 ($168,000) and warning him about his future behavior.
Pardew, who has been manager of the north-east club since December 2010, "unreservedly apologized" for his actions in a statement on the club's website.
But he has previous history of controversial touchline incidents, as far back as 2006 tangling with Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger when he was in charge at West Ham.
In March 2012 came another set to with then Sunderland boss Martin O'Neill, while later that year his touchline shove of a linesman in the season-opener against Tottenham Hotspur earned his a two-match touchline ban from the FA and a hefty fine.
Earlier Monday, Pardew learned he would not face police action over his head-butt.
Humberside Police confirmed it had received no complaint from Meyler and would be content to let the FA deal with the matter.
"Whilst we appreciate that some people may have found the behavior displayed at the game on Saturday offensive, Humberside Police will not be taking any further action," read a statement.
Saturday's victory left Newcastle in eighth position in the Premier League, but with little prospect of qualifying for European football next season.
