(CNN)  -- AC Milan went top of Serie A for the first time this season with a 3-1 victory over Palermo in the San Siro as previous leaders Lazio lost 1-0 at newly-promoted Cesena Wednesday.
Pato opened the scoring for Milan before Armin Bacinovic equalized for the Sicilians but a Zlatan Ibrahimovic penalty and late Robinho third gave Milan a comfortable win.
Their joy was complete as city rivals and reigning champions Inter were held to a 1-1 draw at Lecce and drop to fourth.
Diego Milito scored ony his third goal of the season on 76 minutes as he returns from injury, but Uruguayan Ruben Oliver leveled for Lecce just three minutes later.
Napoli moved above Inter to third as Ezequiel Lavezz grabbed an injury time winner at Cagliari.
Lazio were suffering their second straight defeat after going down to AS Roma in the capital city derby at the weekend.
Marco Parolo scored the only goal of the game five minutes from time to sink Lazio.
Turin giants Juventus are in fifth after a 1-1 draw at Brescia as Alessandro Diamanti equalized after Fabio Quagliarella's opener.
In Spain's Copa Del Rey, Real Madrid thumped Real Murcia 5-1 at home to avoid the domestic cup upsets of recent seasons. The first leg had ended goalless.
Esteban Granero's early goal put Real ahead before Gonzalo Higuain's controversial second, which saw Sergio Ramos clearly obstruct visiting goalkeeper Dani Hernandez from an offside position.
Goals from Cristiano Ronaldo, Karim Benzema and Xabi Alonso settled the match in the Bernebeu in the second half.
But Murcia scored a consolation through Pedro's late penalty.
Barcelona are also safely through to the next round, thrashing AD Cueta 5-1 at Camp Nou.
Already 2-0 up after the first leg, goals from Nolito and Gabriel Milito gave the hosts a two-goal lead inside the first 10 minutes, although the visitors pulled a goal back through Guzman after 35 minutes.
Spanish duo Pedro and Bojan Krkic both found the net before Argentine superstar Lionel Messi completed the rout with just over 20 minutes to go.
