Lionel Messi returned to haunt Arsenal as his two goals helped Barcelona into the quarterfinals of the Champions League after a 3-1 win in Spain.
The Argentina striker scored four goals to knock the English club out of last year's competition and he starred again as the Spanish champions secured their place in the last eight with a 4-3 aggregate win.
Messi opened the scoring just before halftime before the English club pulled level thanks to Sergio Busquets' own goal.
Robin van Persie was shown a second yellow card for shooting on goal after the referee's whistle had gone -- the striker claimed he couldn't hear it amid the noise from 95,000 fans in the stadium.
Barcelona then took control as Xavi edged them ahead from a flowing move before Messi grabbed his second from the penalty spot after Laurent Koscielny tripped Pedro.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger was involved in a furious confrontation with the referee upon the final whistle while the statistics showed his side had failed to register a single shot on goal, compared to Barca's 19.
Blog: Wenger was right, the ref killed the game
Arsenal had been boosted by the return of injured duo Van Persie and captain Cesc Fabregas before the game but they were on the back foot for the majority of the first half.
And they lost goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny after only 16 minutes when he damaged a finger saving Dani Alves' free kick. Manuel Almunia replaced him.
Dutch striker Van Persie was then involved in an altercation with Alves and was shown a yellow card. Just before the break Messi broke the deadlock, with help from an unlikely source.
Fabregas' risky back heel was intercepted by Andres Iniesta, he fed Messi and the striker clipped the ball over Almunia before smashing a volley into the net.
Out of nothing Arsenal equalized on 53 minutes when Busquets inadvertently headed Nasri's corner into his own net and at that stage, the English side were going through.
But Van Persie was shown a second yellow card for shooting on goal after being flagged offside. The striker claimed he couldn't hear the referee's whistle, which was blown less than a second before he struck his shot.
Within 16 minutes of Van Persie's dismissal Arsenal were 3-1 down. First Xavi finished off a neat move after David Villa's pass, then Pedro was fouled by Koscielny and Messi scored from the penalty spot.
Almunia made a string of vital saves to keep Arsenal in it before the visitors had a late chance to steal the tie when Jack Wilshere put substitute Nicklas Bendtner through on goal but the Danish striker's first touch was poor and he lost possession.
After the game both Van Persie and Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger criticized the referee. On his sending off Van Persie told Sky Sports: "I can't understand that view from the ref. One second from his whistle to my shot is a joke.
"He's been a joke all evening. I don't know why he's here tonight. In my opinion that ref killed the game. There were 95,000 people jumping up so how could I hear his whistle?"
Wenger added: "He [the referee] must never have played football at all to do that. I told him what I think about his decision face to face. There's not a lot more to say about that."
In the evening's other match Shakhtar Donetsk thrashed Italian giants Roma 3-0 in Ukraine to run out 6-2 winners on aggregate.
Goals from Tomas Hubschman, Willan and Eduardo settled proceedings for Shakhtar, who led 3-2 from the first leg in Italy. Marco Borriello missed a penalty for Roma with the score at 1-0.
