Casey Anthony's acquittal on murder charges was a sign from God that her daughter Caylee's death was an accident, Cindy Anthony said in a television interview aired Wednesday.
Cindy Anthony, Casey's mother, told television host Dr. Phil McGraw that "there is something seriously wrong with my daughter." But she told McGraw, "I'm not going to be her judge and jury. God is her judge, and he let her free."
"I prayed to God for three years to find out what happened to Caylee, and I prayed during the whole trial that God would give me closure and if Casey was responsible for Caylee's death, that Casey would go to jail and be punished," Cindy Anthony said.
"And when that verdict came in and Casey was free, I got my answer -- that it was an accident," she said. "And I believe that justice for Caylee was when her mother walked."
But while she said she believes Caylee's death was an accident, she dismissed the defense's argument that her husband, George Anthony, helped cover up the girl's death.
"I don't believe that for a minute," Cindy Anthony said.
Caylee was last seen June 16, 2008, but was not reported missing until July 15, 2008. Her skeletal remains were found five months later, in the woods a short distance from the family's home in Orlando.
After a lengthy investigation that became a media frenzy, Casey Anthony was acquitted of first-degree murder in July, but found guilty of four misdemeanor counts of providing false information to law enforcement officers. She has remained out of the public spotlight since her release from jail, but is on probation for a 2010 conviction on check fraud charges.
Cindy Anthony's comments were aired in the second part of a lengthy interview that began airing Tuesday on the syndicated "Dr. Phil" program. Cindy Anthony and her husband, George, told McGraw they differed on how their granddaughter died, with George Anthony saying he believed Casey had help disposing of Caylee's remains.
George Anthony said he suspects his daughter "or someone else that she was with" may have drugged Caylee to put her to sleep so Casey Anthony could "go out and have a good time," resulting in the girl's death.
Cindy Anthony expressed surprise at the assertion, telling McGraw, "It's the first time I've heard it, and we've been through this for three years."
