(CNN Student News) -- February 14, 2014
Love may be in the air this Valentine's Day, but many people in the U.S. Northeast won't be stepping outside. Today, we'll look at what could be the worst storm they've faced this winter. We also cover a giant telecommunications deal, a lawsuit involving the president, and a look at some very happy homecomings.
Please note there will be no show on Monday's Presidents Day holiday. The daily program will resume Tuesday, February 18.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What perspectives would consumers need to hear in order to formulate opinions about a possible corporate merger?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What title does Jack Lew have in the U.S. Cabinet?
2. What U.S. federal agency is responsible for overseeing the farming industry and helping ensure that the food supply is safe?
3. What is the most commonly spread stomach virus?
4. What river in England has been flooding Somerset and other areas after a series of winter storms?
5. What Central American nation, soon to be home to the region's largest hydroelectric dam, is the only country that borders both Nicaragua and Panama?
6. Vladimir Putin is the current president of what country?
7. Francois Hollande is the current president of what country?
8. Government officials from what country met with officials from Taiwan for the first time since 1949?
9. What have U.S. lawmakers suspended, allowing the national debt to exceed $17.2 trillion?
10. What U.S. senator announced that he is suing the president and some federal agencies over their collection of phone and email data?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
