Teresa Romero Ramos sought out help three times.
Finally, one week after first seeing a doctor, Romero found out why she felt so sick: She had Ebola.
Even after her Ebola test came back positive at Madrid's Alcorcon hospital, Romero had to wait.
According to a worker at that hospital, Romero lay in the emergency room -- exposed to other patients as well as medical staff, going back and forth -- for eight hours before being transferred to a hospital in the Spanish capital that specializes in infectious diseases.
While Romero was "doing better" Wednesday, according to a regional health spokesman said Wednesday, parts of Spain's medical establishment is looking worse and worse the more that comes out about what she's gone through from how she contracted Ebola to how her case has been handled.
Her plight can also be compared to that of Thomas Eric Duncan, the Liberian citizen who was sent home from a Dallas, Texas, hospital days before eventually being admitted for Ebola. Duncan, the first person diagnosed with Ebola in the United States, died on Wednesday.
Speaking about what's unfolding in Madrid, Health Minister Ana Mato told Parliament that Spain is going to revise its protocols for handling Ebola.
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy also said that his country is "facing a matter that is of international concern." But that doesn't mean Spaniards should hunker down or become overly alarmed, urging them to "keep calm."
"I would like to ask you to allow the health workers to work," he said. "The Spanish health system is one of the best in the world."
1st person to contract Ebola outside Africa
The Ebola virus has been voracious, infecting more than 8,000 people and killing at least 3,800, according to the World Health Organization. It's also been largely confined, with every person catching the disease in West Africa.
Deadliest Ebola outbreak: What you need to know
Until Romero.
She is the first person to contract the deadly virus outside Africa. Dr. German Ramirez, who is among those treating her, said the nurse's assistant at Madrid's Carlos III hospital may have been exposed while removing protective gear she'd donned to treat a Spanish missionary infected with Ebola in West Africa.
"That's what we were working on -- on the errors possibly made while removing the protective suit," Ramirez told reporters, saying it's possible the protective suit or gloves may have touched her face.
Angry doctors and nurses outside Carlos III Hospital said Tuesday they were outraged that two missionaries -- Miguel Pajares and Manuel Garcia Viejo, were almost dead when they arrived -- had been brought to the hospital. Both priests ended up dying at the Madrid hospital.
How did Spanish nurse catch Ebola?
That Romero may have gotten Ebola while doing her job is a major cause of concern, especially if she did -- as she told Spanish newspaper El Mundo -- follow the necessary protocols while caring for the missionary.
So, too, is how her treatment was handled afterward.
