One goal in eight matches for new club Liverpool, and dumped by the Italian national team.
Perhaps the man known as "Super" Mario Balotelli isn't feeling quite so super at present.
Offloaded by Italian giants AC Milan prior to the start of the season, the 24-year-old is already onto the fourth high-profile club of his fledgling career.
And until the striker, painted as a maverick and a trouble maker in the press, proves he can '"carry" a club, his enormous potential may go unfulfilled, according to Milan director Umberto Gandini.
"Probably Mario has not made the transition yet from being just a fantastic athlete to a great player," Gandini told CNN of one of the most talked about players in world football.
"The expectation was probably bigger (at AC Milan), and I think also his expectations, and he has not reached the status yet where he can carry the club.
"Until he will do that he won't be able to fulfill his promises."
Balotelli has struggled to adapt to life back in the English Premier League, scoring just one goal in eight matches for Liverpool since his $25 million move in August.
Even his new manager Brendan Rodgers admitted signing the former Inter forward was a "calculated risk" given his checkered past, saying the player himself knows this is probably his last chance.
Not helping him is the shadow of the man he replaced on Merseyside -- Luis Suarez, now at Spanish club Barcelona.
The Uruguayan achieved cult status at the club, scoring 82 goals in 133 appearances, and 31 times last season as the Reds came agonizingly close to a first Premier League title since 1990.
And while there are similarities in the way the pair have courted controversy in the past, Balotelli is yet to offered any hint of the potency that punctuated Suarez's stay at the club.
He is yet to get off the mark in the Premier League and whether he will play alongside Daniel Sturridge on Sunday against QPR, the England striker having returned to fitness, remains to be seen.
Tales of Balotelli's private life dominated his last stint in England and Milan president Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian prime minister, this week said the striker was signed against his advice, calling him a "bad apple."
But that is at odds with Gandini's assessment -- that Balotelli is far more professional than he is portrayed -- though he does acknowledge the player is energized by conflict.
"He is much, much better than he is portrayed and his lifestyle was much better than portrayed in England," Gandini added. "He is a fantastic kid, he is humble, and recognizes a lot of values that football has given to him, and life in general.
"I think he loves the fight. He loves to fight with something or somebody -- on the pitch, in life. He's always trying to take the stance.
