Bayern Munich continued their fast start to the Bundesliga season with a 6-1 rout of ten-man VfB Stuttgart Sunday to top the early standings.
With two wins from two, the Bavarian giants have edged out Eintracht Frankfurt on goal difference and they served up a real treat for their fans in the Allianz Arena.
Stuttgart went ahead with a superb strike from Martin Harnik, but Thomas Mueller equalized with the first of his two goals.
His German international teammate Toni Kroos added a second with Luis Gustavo scoring the third before the break.
Three Bayern goals in four minutes soon after the break added to Stuttgart's misery with Mario Mandzukic, Mueller and Bastian Schweinsteiger scoring.
Visiting striker Vedad Ibisevic was shown red for headbutting Bayern's Jerome Boateng before new home signing Javi Martinez came on for the last 13 minutes having transferred from Athletic Bilbao for 40 million euros ($50.3m) Thursday.
"He has already hinted that he can play well, I think he is exactly the sort of player we need," Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes told AFP.
"We made life hard for ourselves in the first few minutes, then little by little we took control of the game and played outstandingly well."
Earlier, Felix Magath's Wolfsburg were thrashed 4-0 at home by Hannover and had defender Robin Knoche sent off in the second half.
Tunisia defender Karim Haggui put Hannover ahead after only 10 minutes before Poland's Artur Sobiech added the second on 26 minutes.
Dane Leon Andreasen and Sobiech with his second made it 4-0 before Knoche departed for a second yellow card.
In Italy, Turin giants Juventus have also made a fine start to the season with their second straight win -- beating Udinese 4-1.
The reigning champions are having to do without coach Antonio Conte, who has a 10-month touchline ban for failing to give information about match fixing when at his previous club Siena.
Conte is appealing the ban and spent the game at Udinese's Stadio Friuli high in the stands.
He watched as Udinese goalkeeper Zelijko Brkic was sent off for giving away a 12th minute penalty.
Arturo Vidal scored from the spot kick and Marko Vucinic added the second on 39 minutes.
Striker Sebastien Giovinco scored a second half double before a late consolation from the home side from Andrea Lazzari.
AS Roma also prospered with a 3-1 win at Inter Milan, going ahead in the 15th minute through Alessandro Florenzi.
New Inter arrival Antonio Cassano leveled before goals from Daniel Osvaldo and Marquinho gave the visitors the three points, Osvaldo's dismissal in stoppage time the only blot on a fine performance.
