A Connecticut woman who rammed barricades and led police on a chase near the U.S. Capitol last week was carrying a box that contained her driver's license, passport, Social Security card and foreign currency.
The gray lockbox was found inside Miriam Carey's 2010 Infiniti sedan, according to court documents filed Tuesday.
Carey, 34, died after police shot her following a wild chase. Her 1-year-old daughter, who was in the back seat, was uninjured.
Who was Miriam Carey?
Authorities also found in the lockbox hospital discharge documents, keys, a lease agreement, various mail documents and a check for Carey in the amount of almost $1,800.
The foreign currency, both paper and coins, was inside a plastic Ziploc bag. The documents didn't specify where the money was from.
The discovery was the latest twist in a story that started Thursday.
The incident played out in one of the most heavily policed places in the world, temporarily locked down Congress and sparked anxiety among tourists and staffers alike.
No clarity on whether shooting was justified
Police say Carey rammed barricades and police cruisers -- actions Washington police Chief Cathy Lanier said appeared deliberate -- and sped down Pennsylvania Avenue before crashing. Two law enforcement officers were injured.
An officer attempted to block her car with a bicycle rack, but Carey pushed over the rack, knocking the officer to the ground, according to the documents filed Tuesday.
She entered a traffic circle against the flow of traffic, and had been driving in reverse when she was fatally shot.
'My sister just totally didn't deserve this'
Carey's boyfriend reportedly told police last winter that she appeared to be delusional. The boyfriend said she claimed President Barack Obama had placed Stamford, Connecticut, where she lived, under lockdown and that her house was under electronic surveillance, said a law enforcement source familiar with the investigation. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, was not authorized to release details to the media.
Reports have surfaced following the deadly incident that Carey was being treated for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, claims her family has vehemently denied.
Her family has questioned whether shooting Carey was the only way to end the chase.
"We want to know if protocols were followed," family attorney Eric Sanders said last week on CNN's AC360.
"We are interested in finding out what happened. ...We are going to conduct our investigation, and we are not going to go with just what the government said."
Police Chief Lanier has said that officers of the U.S. Capitol Police and Secret Service acted within commonly accepted use-of-force policies and practices in reaction to an intentional series of violent acts.
Mental health paperwork found at home of Miriam Carey
