A Boston-area man who plotted to kidnap children, rape and eat them, was sentenced Tuesday to more than 26 years in prison followed by a lifetime of supervised release, according to court documents from the United States district attorney's office.
Geoffrey Portway, 40, was also ordered to pay $3,000 in restitution to five children whose images were found in online chats by Portway, according to court documents. Portway, a citizen of the United Kingdom and most recently of Worcester, Massachusetts, also faces deportation following his release from prison, according to court documents.
According to defense attorney Richard Sweeney, Portway's sentencing is in accordance with a plea agreement he signed in May, during which he pleaded guilty to distribution and possession of child pornography and solicitation to commit a crime of violence.
Sweeney declined additional comment Tuesday on his client's sentence of 320 months, or 26 years and eight months, in prison.
Portway went by the moniker "Fat Longpig" during his online chats, according to court documents.
Ex-PTA president accused of making child porn at elementary school
It was these chats -- which included discussions about abducting, raping, murdering and eating children, according to court documents -- that put Portway on the radar screen of police.
His home in Worcester was searched last year and authorities found tens of thousands of computer images and videos of child pornography, 4,500 exchanges of child pornography between Portway and the people he chatted with online. The images included children purportedly being cooked and prepared to be eaten, court documents said.
Authorities also found a locked basement, court documents show. Photos taken the day of Portway's arrest show a narrow wooden staircase leading downstairs to a soundproof room in which he planned to imprison children. The room was furnished with a metal cage with a circular hole for feeding, a rusted and worn steel-topped table, as well as multiple kinds of metal bondage equipment. A child-sized coffin made of plywood was found on the floor nearby.
'Cannibal cop' convicted in New York
Also found in the house were handcuffs, rope intended for bondage, mouth gags, and castration tools. A large box of frozen raw chicken, near a handful of disposable scalpels, was photographed by investigators near two industrial-sized freezers.
In the kitchen, a jug of Clorox bleach was seen by the doorway, while a red child-sized 'onesie' lay on the countertop, amid snacks and disposable syringes. A butcher kit containing plastic gloves, an apron, cutting board, bone saw, cleaver, shears, and multiple knives was photographed in the sink.
Portway's collection of DVDs and books appear to echo his intentions to ensnare, rape, and cannibalize children. Among his DVD collection were titles such as "Human Beast," "Hansel and Gretel," "The Real Cannibal Holocaust," "The Genesis Children," "Cannibal the Musical," and "Cannibal Ferox," a film with the tagline "Make them die slowly." Portman's DVD copy of the film "Albert Fish: In Sin He Found Salvation" had a note written on it: "Will, let's do lunch."
Online chats, seized by police, showed Portway calling his basement a "dungeon" where he intended to "keep kidnapped children while he sexually abused them and as a place to eventually murder and cannibalize the children," authorities said.
Pretzel bag leads feds to child porn suspect in California
Two other men who chatted with Portway have already been convicted. One was a puppeteer who, authorities said, plotted with Portway to kidnap children the puppeteer knew from his work at a Florida church.
Last week, federal prosecutors called Portway's collection "chilling" and wrote in a sentencing recommendation that he should be imprisoned for at least 27 years, to protect the public.
"Portway has pled guilty to some of the most vile and heinous crimes known to our society," federal prosecutors wrote in court documents.
Prosecutors could not be immediately reached for comment on Portway's sentencing Tuesday.
Florida man linked to 1 million child porn videos, images
CNN's Julia Lull, Lateef Mungin and Julie Cannold contributed to this report.
