A former campaign aide who has accused Republican congressional candidate Carl DeMaio of sexual harassment released the results of an independent lie detector test on Friday in an effort to refute DeMaio's suggestion that he is a suspected criminal.
In an exclusive CNN interview aired last week, Todd Bosnich accused DeMaio of sexually harassing him, saying the San Diego Republican even masturbated in front of him. DeMaio denied the allegations, saying they're the cover story of a plagiarist and suspected criminal. Both men are openly gay.
DeMaio said Bosnich was fired from his job as campaign policy director for plagiarizing a report. Days later, DeMaio said, Bosnich broke into his campaign office and smashed computers and cut phone lines. Bosnich denied both allegations.
On Friday, Bosnich's lawyers sent CNN the results of a lie detector test Bosnich took on Thursday.
The test asked whether Bosnich entered DeMaio's headquarters last May on the days when the break-in could have occurred. It also asks whether Bosnich committed "the alleged illegal activities in Carl DeMaio's campaign headquarters in May of this year?" Bosnich answered "no" to both questions.
The report said Bosnich's answers were "truthful" and found "no deception."
Bosnich's attorney, Bibi Fell, said in a statement to CNN that Bosnich took the test "because of the serious and public allegations Mr. DeMaio has made about Todd."
"As expected, the polygraph shows that Todd was telling the truth. Todd had nothing to do with the break-in at the DeMaio campaign last May. DeMaio's baseless and malicious criminal accusations re-victimize Todd and deflect from the fact that DeMaio exposed himself to his young staffer," Fell said. "It's time for DeMaio to take responsibility and stop throwing his staffer under the bus."
This is the second polygraph test Bosnich has taken. In June, Bosnich took a lie detector test to support his allegations of sexual harassment, a copy of which Bosnich's attorney provided to CNN. The report said Bosnich's answers were "truthful" and found "no deception."
DeMaio's spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
