Running for president takes blood, sweat and tears, literally. Especially the sweat.
Recalling his own campaign and debate experiences, Mitt Romney sympathized with Florida gubernatorial candidate Charlie Crist on Tuesday, saying that he knows why the former governor insisted on using a fan during his debate in October.
"You may have read that one of the candidates for governor of Florida this year put a fan under his podium when he debated," Romney said. "I sure know why: debating can be sweaty business."
Speaking to students at his alma mater -- Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah -- on Tuesday, Romney said that debating on a national level is harder than it looks.
"You may find it hard to imagine what it is like to debate an opponent on national TV. I was not a high school debater," Romney said. "In fact, until I got into politics, the only person I had ever debated was my 5-year-old son, Matt. And he usually won."
"My 2012 campaign had 23 televised debates, 20 with fellow Republicans and three with President Obama. These guys were no debate slouches. Newt Gingrich had been Speaker of the House. And President Obama, well, he had been President for four years. He kind of had his facts nailed down by that point."
Inspirational reminders
To combat the stress, Romney developed a strategy to keep his nerves cool and his mind centered.
"Before every one of my debates, I did something to keep things in perspective," Romney said. "At the top of the sheet of paper that was placed on my podium for me to make notes, just before the debate kicked off, I wrote at the top one word: 'Dad.' I also drew a small image of the sun."
"Throughout the debate, when I'd glance down at that paper, I was reminded of my father's fearlessness in fighting for what he believed was right. And the sun? That reminded me of the familiar scripture, 'Let your light so shine ...'
"Win or lose a debate, I hoped I would never do anything that would dishonor or discredit the things I hold most dear."
One would assume that after two unsuccessful runs for the White House -- with millions of dollars spent, hundreds of days on the road and lots of critical press -- Romney would feel deflated, overcome and disheartened.
He doesn't.
In fact, the former Massachusetts governor says that running for president was "the most remarkable" of his life's journeys.
"Despite my loss, the experience was extraordinary and revealing," Romney said. "I come away more optimistic about the future of the country."
From English major to White House candidate
An English major, Romney said that growing up, he had no idea what he was going to do with his life, let alone run for president.
"Almost nothing I've done in my career was planned in advance," Romney said. "I could hardly have predicted I would get into politics."
Of course, the notoriety that comes with running for the highest office in the United States can be exhausting. And although "Mitt Romney" is now a household name, the former businessman does relish the time when that wasn't always the case.
"One evening in a Marriott Hotel in San Francisco, I had arranged for a massage to loosen my tight back," Romney said, recounting one of his favorite moments from the campaign trail. "Believe it or not, the hundreds upon hundreds of handshakes that day had given me a backache. After the massage, the masseuse, obviously unaware of my political career, remarked to my assistant: 'Mr. Romney has strong legs; he is a dancer, is he not?'"
"That may have been the best compliment of my campaign."
