(CNN Student News) -- August 23, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Iran • Pakistan • Korean Peninsula
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Back from the weekend and ready to launch into 10 minutes of commercial-free headlines, including dueling protests, an Iranian announcement and one teen's push for peace. I'm Carl Azuz. This is CNN Student News.
First Up: Egg Safety
AZUZ: First up, a recall gets bigger as more than half a billion eggs are pulled off the shelves. Now last week, we told you about an egg producer that did a recall because of concerns about salmonella, a bacteria that can be found in eggs, and it can make you very sick. Well now, another producer is involved. Experts think that around 1,300 people have gotten sick from the tainted eggs. One doctor offered some safety tips.
DR. RANDY MARTIN, PIEDMONT HEART INSTITUTE: Eggs are actually a great source of protein and a lot of the good vitamins. But there are other sources. So, if you're really concerned, have some tofu, other things like that. Refrigerate your eggs. They've got to be less than 40 degrees. Store them individually, like you've done, and then cook them. They've got to be more than 160 degrees for 10 minutes. And eat them promptly.
Islamic Center Debate
AZUZ: In New York City, things are tense over plans to build an Islamic center with a mosque a few blocks away from Ground Zero. That's one site of the 9/11 terror attacks. And Sunday, hundreds of people turned out in protest, both against the plan and for it. Most of the protesters are opposed to the plan; they're opposed to the Islamic center. They argue that it's insensitive to build it so close to Ground Zero. According to a CNN poll that was taken earlier this month, nearly 70 percent of Americans agree with them; they are against the plan. But on the other side of the debate, those folks who support building the Islamic center argue that the issue is freedom of religion. New York Governor David Patterson says there are no laws that prevent the construction of the Islamic center. But he says the controversy shows him that "the wounds of 9/11 haven't healed." One of the leaders of the group that's behind the development of the Islamic center says that there are no plans to move the construction site, at least not for now.
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for the Shoutout! What is the name of the Middle Eastern country that's highlighted on this map? If you think you know it, shout it out! Is it: A) Saudi Arabia, B) Iran, C) Pakistan or D) Oman? You've got three seconds -- GO! The Islamic Republic of Iran is highlighted here. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Drone Unveiled
AZUZ: And Iran is making a new type of military weapon. It's a long-range drone, an unmanned arial vehicle. They're pretty common in modern combat. The U.S. uses something called a Predator drone. And American officials say the unmanned vehicles help cut down risk for troops because no one actually has to be on board piloting it. Iran started producing its drones back in February. The first ones were unveiled yesterday. Iranian officials say the drones have a range of about 620 miles and can carry different types of bombs and missiles to hit ground targets. They claim that the goal of the new vehicles is to prevent aggression against their country. Meanwhile, Iran has started fueling a new nuclear energy plant. It says the plant will help make electricity. But other countries, including the United States, think Iran may try to make nuclear weapons.
Flood Economy
AZUZ: Moving east from Iran to Pakistan. We've told you about the severe flooding there. We're starting to see some of the aftermath of that flooding in terms of disease: skin diseases, respiratory infections, malaria. The World Health Organization says nearly a million Pakistanis are suffering some kind of illness. The floods are making a massive impact on the country's economy as well, and Jonathan Mann has more on that.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
JONATHAN MANN, CNN ANCHOR, ATLANTA: More than half of Pakistan's people live off the land. Now, much of the land is covered by dirty water, and the people are reduced to misery.
WENDY CHAMBERLIN, PRESIDENT, MIDDLE EAST INSTITUTE; FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO PAKISTAN: It's hard to imagine a country that is least prepared or had the thinnest of margins to be able to absorb a shock of this type.
MANN: Under all of that water, there are homes, farms and factories, bridges, roads and irrigation canals. Five hundred thousand tons of stored wheat is now reported ruined. Add potentially two million bales of cotton. Food prices have been rising in markets around the country. Pakistan's long-standing electricity shortage is suddenly so much worse because power plants have been shut down or damaged as well. The county's high commissioner to Britain told the Reuters news agency that it might cost $15 billion to rebuild from the devastation. And Pakistan -- already deeply in debt -- will have less money to spend, because its ability to earn with exports has been dramatically reduced.
CHAMBERLIN: What the floods have done is to virtually wipe out an infrastructure, agricultural infrastructure that it depended upon for its wheat exports. And because about 60 percent of the population worked in the agricultural sector, so the amount of investment that will need to go in just to bring Pakistan back up to a status quo, a status quo that was not sufficient, is going to cost billions and billions of dollars.
MANN: The world has responded with millions in aid. The World Bank alone has pledged $900 million more. But Pakistan will need so much more money than that, even long after the water is gone. Jonathan Mann, CNN.
(END VIDEO)
Is this Legit?
SHELBY ERDMAN, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? The demilitarized zone, or DMZ, divides North and South Korea. Legit! It was established in 1953 as part of the agreement that ended the fighting in the Korean War.
Peace Mission
AZUZ: The fighting ended a while ago, but technically, North and South Korea are still at war. And the DMZ is patrolled at all times by troops from both countries. It doesn't sound like the kind of place you might want to spend a vacation, but there's a 13-year-old from Mississippi who thought so. And Emily Chang introduces him and his hope to us.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
EMILY CHANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: He's a 13-year-old boy turned international envoy.
JONATHAN LEE, PEACE ADVOCATE: Hello, my name is Jonathan, and I'm the founder of a youth humanitarian environmental group called "I See Hope."
CHANG: Just off a plane, Jonathan Lee greeted throngs of global media after a mission to one of the most isolated nations in the world.
LEE: Actually, I was really kind of scared at first. But once I got there, I was kind of relieved because I felt, in my experience, very safe.
CHANG: As a Korean-American from Mississippi, his idea was simple but ambitious: to convince Kim Jong-il to plant a children's peace forest in the demilitarized zone that separates North and South Korea, two nations technically still at war.
LEE: I would really like, if possible, maybe of children from both countries to be able to meet and play with each other, like a big playground.
CHANG: How did you feel when he came up with this idea?
MELISSA LEE, JONATHAN'S MOTHER: I was like, really? You want to go to North Korea, and when? And then he was so adamant and so strong about how he felt, I was like, okay. I was cool with it. I was fine.
KYOUNG LEE, JONATHAN'S FATHER: I said, no way.
CHANG: Completely opposite.
His father, originally from South Korea, was hesitant, but eventually agreed and the family embarked on their journey.
LEE: My idea for the mission statement of the children's peace forest is "Above politics, above borders, above ideology, above conflict."
CHANG: Jonathan's humanitarian work started three years ago. He created Go Green Man, a superhero who teaches kids to protect the environment. He's met with President Obama and other top leaders. He's filed more than 30 iReports on CNN and waged a seven-day campaign to urge McDonald's to recycle. But his trip to North Korea would be the most challenging and eye opening.
LEE: I went to a school children's palace and I found out the children there are very talented. They learned piano and did it really impressively. The accordion, calligraphy, embroidery.
CHANG: He didn't meet with Kim Jong-il, but says he did meet with other government officials who told him a peace treaty would have to be signed before there could ever be a children's peace forest.
LEE: Well, I was a little disappointed, but I'm going to keep trying. Maybe if I keep trying, I don't know, maybe eventually, hopefully.
CHANG: Emily Chang, CNN, Beijing.
(END VIDEO)
Before We Go
AZUZ: All right, before we go today, we've got a story that's just too doggone cute -- or ugly -- to ignore.  This is Izzy, a two-year old Chihuahua. But she's only half the story. Look down by her leg. That's a baby squirrel! Two of those were abandoned under the tree. Izzy's owner took in the squirrels, but Izzy decided to take over, adopting the little ones. We've actually been holding on to this video for a few days, kinda waiting to show it off to you.
Goodbye
AZUZ: I guess you could say we've been squirreling it away. Chihuahuas, squirrels, puns: It's the little things on CNN Student News. I'm Carl Azuz.
