(CNN Student News) -- August 23, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What challenges might journalists face in reporting on stories involving an intelligence agency? Why might viewers be interested in this kind of coverage?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What country's former president, Pervez Musharraf, has been charged with murder and placed under house arrest?
2. What U.S. intelligence agency, established in 1952, collects foreign information and protects U.S. information?
3. Mark Zuckerberg is one of the founders of what social media company?
4. What 1972 NFL team remains the only one to finish with a perfect season?
5. What is the name of the massive cruise ship that ran aground off the coast of Italy last year?
6. In the U.S. music industry, what is the highest category for recording sales: diamond, gold or platinum?
7. Bashar al-Assad is the president of what country?
8. What war, which began in 1950, never officially ended with a peace treaty?
9. What country gave temporary asylum to U.S. security contractor Edward Snowden?
10. What U.S. professional sports league is planning to expand its use of instant replay?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Duncan, Oklahoma; Louisiana
Europe
Italy
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
