Chelsea's sacking of Andre Villas-Boas came under fire Monday with former Blues boss Luis Felipe Scolari warning it will be "hell" for whoever succeeds the Portuguese at Stamford Bridge.
Ex-Brazil national team boss Scolari is one of six managers dismissed by Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich and, like himself, does not believe Villas-Boas was given enough time by the Russian billionaire.
"England has clubs like Arsenal, where Arsene Wenger has been for several years, yet has won only two or three championships," he told a news conference for his present club Palmeiras.
"Chelsea's culture is very different, but this move is strange -- although it's not so strange to me because of what I went through there.
Blog: Chelsea right to sack AVB
"Villas-Boas was a champion and he will continue to be. He needed to replace at least seven or eight players, even since I was there, but he failed.
"It will be hell for whoever succeeds him."
Blog: Can English clubs catch Europe's best?
But Dutch legend Ruud Gullit, who managed Chelsea before Abramovich took control, told CNN that he disagreed with Scolari.
"I do not think it is 'hell' -- I had a great time at Chelsea which I still treasure, for me it was no hell."
Gullit hinted that he believed Villas-Boas needed to have made better use of his senior squad members.
"The older players need to help the younger players know how to play the game, you can't ignore them by putting them on the bench and not in the team."
Richard Bevan, the chief executive of the league managers' association, also condemned the sacking Monday.
"Looking for what is an eighth manager in nine years is a serious embarrassment to the owner, the club, the fans and the league," Bevan told BBC.
Bevan had spoken to Villas-Boas, who was "very disappointed, frustrated (and) saddened" by his dismissal.
And Arsenal manager Wenger also believed that Abramovich had been hasty to remove Villas-Boas.
"I feel sorry for him and it's sad every time a manager loses his job because it's a job that demands a full commitment and I think he did that.
"I am sorry he was not given enough time to do his job," he told gathered reporters.
Chelsea players have also come out in support of their former manager with central defender David Luiz thanking the Portuguese.
He said on Twitter: "Thanks AVB! You are an amazing guy! Big hug."
Midfielder Juan Mata, one of Villas-Boas' signings, also reacted on Facebook.
"It hasn't been an easy day for those who, like me, are part of Chelsea. I would like to thank the manager and wish him luck.
"We have to keep working hard and better days will come. Thanks for your support!"
Chelsea made a move to strengthen its coaching staff Monday after the departure of Villas-Boas by appointing former player Eddie Newton to assist interim manager Roberto Di Matteo.
The 40-year-old Newton was assistant to Di Matteo at both MK Dons and West Bromwich Albion, but told Sky Sports his appointment had come "totally out of the blue."
Di Matteo later told Chelsea TV that the club "have to move on" after the sacking of Villas-Boas.
"Andre has brought some very good, positive ideas and changes to this football club and we will benefit from his changes," he claimed.
"Our duty now is to look forward and to try to get the results that we need in the league, the Champions League and in the FA Cup to have a good season."
The first test of the new management team will be an FA Cup replay on Tuesday night at second flight Birmingham.
