(CNN Student News) -- October 8, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might a reporter's impromptu questioning of someone compare and contrast with a scheduled interview? What might be the benefits and drawbacks of each?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. raid
2. U.S. Treasury Department
3. name origins
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Why did U.S. military forces recently pursue targets in Somalia and Libya?
2. When and why was the U.S. "debt ceiling" created?
3. Describe the debate surrounding the name of the Washington Redskins.
Discussion Questions:
1. What challenges might be involved in attempting to capture a known terrorist? What do you think will happen next with regard to the terrorists mentioned in the program?
2. What different perspectives might American football fans, Native Americans, the media and NFL players have concerning the name of the Washington Redskins? Do you think the team's name should be changed? Why or why not?
3. What types of lessons do you think that Dave Smith is learning on his trip? How might these compare and contrast with what he might learn in a classroom setting? What do you know about the history of your own name? What questions would you ask someone who shared it?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
Somalia; Tripoli, Libya
North America
Washington, D.C.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
