Former world number one Ana Ivanovic says she is determined to get back to the top of tennis following her morale-boosting title success in Austria.
The 22-year-old ended her two-year trophy drought on Sunday, moving up to 26th in the rankings after beating Patty Schnyder in the final of the event in Linz.
"I think I deserve a position at the top and I think I have the ability to win another grand slam," the 2008 French Open champion told CNN on Monday.
"I am very keen to get back there, and I am putting everything into it. I really want it to happen soon."
The Serbian had slumped as low as 65th in the WTA standings this year, but said her ninth career title was evidence that she was on the way back up.
"I feel great," she said. "It really means a lot for me because I have put a lot of hard work in. I'm thrilled to have finally won a title again."
After claiming the prestigious number one ranking back in 2008 -- the same year she won her one and only grand slam title to date in Paris -- Ivanovic found herself quickly slipping outside of the world's top 20.
Critics were quick to blame a lack of focus, claiming she had been distracted by off-court matters as she signed some lucrative endorsement deals and was courted by media enchanted by her good looks.
But the Belgrade-born athlete denies any claims that her slump was due to a problem with motivation or a declining interest in the sport she began playing at the age of five.
"Once I became number one I started working even harder. I changed my technique but injuries started creeping in -- it was a big mistake as I was doing something right to get to that spot in the first place," she said.
"I had a few little injuries and then I lost matches I should have won. It affects your confidence -- it's like a circle that is hard to break."
Ivanovic's previous WTA Tour victory had been on the same Austrian hard-courts at her peak in 2008, and she now hopes Sunday's breakthrough can be the catalyst to further success in her still-young career.
"I am working very hard. I know it's going to be a process, but I am ready to give it my all and come back to the top," said Ivanovic, who is seeded fourth for this week's Luxembourg Open.
