The much anticipated trial of former Egyptian Interior Minister Habib El Adly has been postponed until August 3 -- the same day Egypt's ousted president is scheduled to stand trial.
El Adly and former Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak face charges of killing pro-democracy protesters during the revolution that started six months ago.
El Adly's trial at a Cairo court was expected to be carried live on state television Monday. This is second time the trial was postponed amid frustrations among protesters in Tahrir Square who demand speedy trials and swift judgments for detained officials from Mubarak's regime.
Judge Adel Abdel Salam Gomaa announced the postponement to a court room packed with people -- many of whom had already learned about the decision on Egyptian State TV.
"The decision was leaked by the lawyers before the hearing and broadcast before the defendants and judge even entered the court -- which was a big mistake, " said Aly Hassan, a judicial consultant with the Ministry of Justice.
El Adly appeared with a blue uniform because he had been sentenced to 12 years for corruption charges. Six of his former assistants, who were also set to stand trial for allegedly killing protesters, appeared in white suits.
The authorities asked all journalists to leave the court except for Egyptian TV staff in charge of broadcasting the trial.
"Do they expect us to believe that Mubarak will appear with Adly in two weeks at a court when he has been in Sharm el-Sheikh for six months?" said Noor Noor, an activist and son of presidential candidate Ayman Noor.
The 83-year-old ex-ruler fell into a coma earlier this month, Mubarak lawyer Farid El Deeb told CNN. He later regained consciousness, said Mohamed Fathalla, the head of the Sharm el-Sheikh facility where Mubarak was recuperating.
Hassan said Mubarak and El Adly are expected to be tried in the coastal city due to security issues.
More than 800 protesters were killed during the Egyptian revolution when pro-democracy protests forced Mubarak to step down on February 11.
CNN's Amir Ahmed contributed to this report.
