(RollingStone.com) -- Kurt Cobain's daughter, Frances Bean, has reacted to Lana Del Rey's recent "I wish I was dead already" proclamation, which came after an interviewer mentioned Cobain and Amy Winehouse.
"The death of young musicians isn't something to romanticize," Frances Bean wrote on Twitter, mentioning Del Rey in a series of tweets. "I'll never know my father because he died young, and it becomes a desirable feat because people like you think it's 'cool.' Well, it's f**king not. Embrace life, because you only get one life. The people you mentioned wasted that life. Don't be one of those people. You're too talented to waste it away." After a Del Rey fan tweeted at Frances Bean to "leave her the f**k alone," the grunge icon's daughter clarified her tweets.
"I'm not attacking anyone," she wrote. "I have no animosity towards Lana. I was just trying to put things in perspective from personal experience."
RS: No Apologies - All 102 Nirvana Songs Ranked
Prior to Frances Bean's tweets, Del Rey, who had conducted the interview in support of her recently released Ultraviolence record, had already expressed regret over her comment, blaming the Guardian reporter who conducted the interview. In her own series of since-deleted tweets, she said the interviewer asked "leading questions about death and persona."
"I regret trusting The Guardian," she wrote. "I didn't want to do an interview, but the journalist was persistent. [He] was masked as a fan, but was hiding sinister ambitions and angles. Maybe he's actually the boring one looking for something interesting to write about."
Guardian editor Tim Jonze, who conducted the interview, contradicted her reluctance, calling her "delightful company."
RS: Lana Del Rey pokes fun at New York hipsters in 'Brooklyn Baby'
Unrelated to Del Rey, Nirvana bassist Krist Novoselic recently discussed Cobain's use and suicide in an interview with Reason TV. When the interviewer asked if the singer-guitarist was "too beautiful" for this world, Novoselic sighed. "He was sensitive, and then it was the drug abuse," the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductee said. "That was a big, big part of it. He was under a lot of pressure. And he made a bad choice. He was probably pretty ripped when he decided to do what he did. If he would have had a clear mind he wouldn't have done that."
RS: Courtney Love on Dave Grohl - 'It's Time to Make Amends'
And when the interviewer tried to clarify if Cobain's death was "a chemical thing," the bassist said bluntly, "He was high on heroin."
See the original story at RollingStone.com.
Copyright © 2011 Rolling Stone.
