Chris Brown's got a big problem with the prosecutor four years after he attacked Rihanna and earned five years of probation.
The singer got an unusual deal when he pleaded guilty to assaulting his pop singer girlfriend. The deal allowed him to complete his court-ordered community service in Virginia under the personal supervision of Richmond Police Chief Bryan Norwood.
The Los Angeles district attorney alleged in a motion filed Tuesday that Brown's mother supervised most of it, and investigators found evidence it was never done.
The paperwork Brown submitted to show he had completed the 180 days of work is "at best sloppy documentation and at worst fraudulent reporting," District Attorney Jackie Lacey said. Brown wasn't in town on some of the dates reported, the motion said.
The ever divisive Chris Brown
The motion also accused Brown of violating probation by punching Frank Ocean at a Hollywood recording studio last month, threatening to "bust" -- or shoot -- the singer. The fight is still being investigated, it said.
It also notes a Miami incident during which Brown allegedly stole a fan's cell phone and a chair-throwing incident after a "Good Morning America" interview.
Also, Brown's claim to have medical marijuana license, which he used to defend against a failed drug test result, was invalid because the acupuncturist who wrote it was not licensed to prescribe drugs, the motion said.
Brown's lawyer Mark Geragos disputed the charges, saying that at least six Virginia officials told the Los Angeles investigators that Brown had performed his community labor.
"Apparently the district attorney's office has completely lost their minds," Geragos said. "They are making scurrilous, libelous and defamatory statements and apparently have lost their ability to read their own reports."
Geragos said he would encourage the Richmond Police Department to take legal action against the Los Angeles County district attorney.
Rihanna on Chris Brown: We know what we have
Despite making serious probation violation allegations and going to the expense of sending investigators to Virginia to conduct interviews, the motion is not asking the judge to revoke Brown's probation and send him to jail. It only seeks to have him restart the 180 days of community labor in California.
Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Patricia Schnegg is expected to be consider it at a probation progress hearing Wednesday afternoon.
It was four years ago this Friday that Brown punched Rihanna inside a rented Lamborghini on a Hollywood street. A police investigator said a fight began when Rihanna found a text message on Brown's cell phone from "a woman who Brown had a previous sexual relationship with."
Brown and Rihanna have since reconciled and resumed their relationship.
CNN's Carolyn Sung contributed to this report.
