Charges against actress Lindsay Lohan in an alleged Manhattan nightclub fight "are not ready to proceed at this time," her attorney said Monday after a hearing at New York criminal court.
Lohan did not attend the hearing because there was nothing for her to plead to, said her attorney, Mark Heller.
"It's my opinion that this case will ultimately be declined for prosecution, but it will be several weeks before the district attorney makes that decision," Heller said.
Lohan: The reality show we don't want to watch
Lohan was charged with misdemeanor assault after allegedly punching a woman early in the morning of November 29, 2012.
She is accused of hitting Tiffany Mitchell, 28, of Palm Beach, Florida, at the trendy Avenue Lounge in Manhattan's Chelsea district.
Heller said Lohan didn't hit anyone.
Lohan heads to court again
"All she did was verbally request her privacy," he said.
He accused Mitchell of "seeking her 15 minutes of fame" and predicted Lohan would be exonerated.
The case is the latest legal trouble for the 26-year-old actress, whose struggle with drugs and alcohol has seen her bounce in and out of court 19 times and to five rehabilitation facilities since 2007.
Lohan is scheduled to appear at a probation violation hearing on January 15 in California.
She was on probation for a 2011 conviction on charges related to the theft of a necklace, but that probation was jeopardized in November 2012 when the city attorney in Santa Monica, California, filed four charges against her in connection with a car crash last summer.
In the Santa Monica case, Lohan is accused of giving false information to a police officer, obstructing or resisting a police officer in the performance of his duty, and reckless driving, according to the city attorney's office.
The charges, all misdemeanors, stem from a car crash while Lohan was on her way to the set for the filming of "Liz & Dick," a Lifetime movie that aired last year.
'Liz & Dick' producer talks the risky business of hiring Lohan
CNN's Michael Martinez in Los Angeles contributed to this report.
