Three New Jersey teenagers who allegedly videotaped the beating death of an immigrant from El Salvador and showed the recording to friends have been charged with the man's murder, authorities said.
Khayri Williams-Clark, 18; Nigel Dumas, 19; and an unidentified 17-year-old minor were all charged with the murder of Abelino Mazariego, 47, the Union County Prosecutor's Office said in a statement Tuesday.
Williams-Clark is being held on $100,000 bail and Dumas is being held on $250,000, authorities said. The minor is being kept in a juvenile detention center, the prosecutor's office said.
The fatal beating occurred on the evening of Sunday, July 17, the prosecutor's office said. According to investigators, Mazariego was sitting on a bench in an upscale neighborhood park area in Summit, New Jersey, when he was approached by the teenagers. The three allegedly attacked Mazariego and recorded the assault with a cell phone camera.
"Without getting into too much detail, it was videotaped and showed amongst teenagers in town," spokesman John Holl of the Union County Prosecutor's Office told CNN. "There were people in town who heard about it, who saw it and that was reported to officers."
The beating appears to have been unprovoked, the prosecutor's statement said. Mazariego was taken to Overlook Hospital in Summit, but he never regained consciousness and died July 19. The Union County medical examiner determined the death was due to brain injuries sustained in the assault, the prosecutor's office said.
Residents of Summit are invited to attend a peace and reconciliation service Wednesday evening, according to the city's website. Participants will gather at city hall and walk to the site where Mazariego was attacked, where they will leave flowers.
"Summit is a community that neither expects nor will ever accept violence against any of its citizens, and the murder of this hard-working father and husband is a tragedy that is deeply felt throughout the community," a statement on the website said.
Meanwhile, a registered nurse at Overlook Hospital has been charged with theft after allegedly stealing several hundred dollars from Mazariego while he was being treated in the emergency room, the prosecutor's statement said.
"The night of the attack coincided with Mazariego's regular payday and family members informed police that roughly $640 was missing from his wallet," the prosecutor's office said. "An investigation was launched by Summit police that led them to" nurse Stephan Randolph, 39.
