When "Sorcery" was demonstrated during the Sony presentation at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in 2010, it was touted as the quintessential game for the new Move motion controller, showcasing how action can be directed with the new device.
Fast forward two years, and "Sorcery" doesn't quite live up to expectations of what the Move system could be. Despite some controller issues, it still offers a fun experience though.
In it, you step into the role of Finn, a young apprentice in the art of magic who is thrust into battle against the dark forces to save a faerie princess, Erline. The princess, by the way, is a cat with a very long tail.
As the game progresses, Finn discovers the ability to cast new spells, which the player casts using the Move controller. A flick of the wrist helps you select your spell and target your enemies. The navigation controller keeps Finn moving while you blast bogeys and assassins with the wand controller.
Spell selection is done by holding down the Move button, then making the appropriate gesture to select your spell -- down for an earth spell, counterclockwise for an ice spell and so on. Switching spells is quick and very responsive.
Players can also combine spell effects for more powerful attacks. Using an ice spell three times will freeze an enemy and allow them to be shattered with a magic missile. A whirlwind can be created with an air spell, then using a fire spell will spew fire bolts all over the place.
However, targeting your opponents gets a little tricky. Players are supposed to aim higher for foes located on a higher level than Finn, but those shots don't seem as consistent as level ones. Unfortunately, the foes on ledges and stairs seem to have no problem raining down shots on you.
Also, when multiple foes start attacking, that flicking action can be a bit hard on the arm and shoulder. Take frequent breaks or else suffer the aches later.
The player will collect raw materials to make potions that restore health and enhance spell abilities. There is also treasure to be found, and it can be used to buy more materials for those potions. Interestingly, once you create a potion and drink it, you never have to make that potion again. The only potions to be reused repeatedly are health potions, which can be bought or found but not created.
The Move controller creates the potions. You are asked to go through the motions of grinding berries, sprinkling dust or pouring a liquid into a cauldron, and then must stir using the wand controller to mix the ingredients together.
Despite being a role-playing game, there is no traditional "leveling up." Any advancement happens through the potions you create and quaff and the spells you find as the game progresses.
The game's dialogue is funny and spirited. There are plenty of quips and one-liners but unfortunately no chances for players to retort. The voice actors for Finn and Erline project real emotions into the characters and help the players feel empathic to their fears, their jokes and their hopes.
"Sorcery" should be the right game for the Move controller, and in many ways, it is. The action flows well, the story is easy to follow and the characters are noteworthy.
It isn't a very deep game, but as an introduction of sorts to Sony's Move tech, it doesn't have to be.
"Sorcery" is now available for the PlayStation 3, and only uses the Move motion controller, navigation controller and Eye camera. It is rated E 10+ for Everyone 10 years of age and older due to fantasy violence, mild blood, and mild suggestive themes. This review was done using a provided retail copy for the PS3.
