Jonny Wilkinson, who enshrined his name in rugby history with his match-winning drop-goal in the 2003 World Cup final, has announced the end of his international career.
The flyhalf struggled to regain the giddy heights of that day in Sydney, when England won the sport's biggest prize for the first time, as he suffered frustrating injury setbacks in the following years.
The 32-year-old was one of many England players to struggle at this year's tournament, which ended in a quarterfinal exit to France and the subsequent departure of his 2003 teammate Martin Johnson as manager following a series of controversies among the squad and the ruling body.
"To do so fills me with great sadness, but I know that I have been blessed in so many ways to have experienced what I have with the England rugby team," Wilkinson said on his website on Monday.
"To say I have played through four World Cups, two Lions tours, 91 international games and a ridiculous number of injuries and other setbacks gives me an incredibly special feeling of fulfillment. But by now I know myself well enough to know that I will never truly be satisfied."
A perfectionist in his approach on and off the pitch, perhaps best illustrated by his painstaking goalkicking style, Wilkinson was twice rugby's record points scorer before the mantle was retaken by New Zealand's Dan Carter this year.
He totaled 1,246 in all internationals for England and the British & Irish Lions, and has a record 277 scored at World Cups -- helping beat Australia 20-17 in extra-time eight years ago, then losing to South Africa in the 2007 final.
Wilkinson started his career at Newcastle in 1997, but joined Toulon in 2009 and will continue his career with the French club.
Stuart Lancaster, who has taken over as England's interim head coach, said Wilkinson was one of the nation's greatest players.
"He will of course be remembered for that drop-goal but he is more than that, a model sportsman -- down to earth and hard working, who has never stopped trying to be the best that he can," said England's head of elite player development.
"Everyone who has played with, coached and watched Jonny play should feel privileged to have had an involvement with him. Not only has he been a world-class player but he has inspired thousands to play and watch the game of rugby.
"He will continue to do great things with Toulon and I would like to go and see him in France to learn from his vast knowledge and experience of 13 years at the very top of the international game."
