Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush swung back at critics of Common Core on Thursday, challenging those who refuse to adopt the controversial testing standards, which have made him a target by conservatives, to come up with something better.
"For those states that are choosing a path other than Common Core, I say this: That's fine, except you should be aiming even higher and be bolder and raise standards and ask more for our students and our system," he said at a summit in Washington hosted by his education group, Foundation for Excellence in Education, a major backer of Common Core standards.
His speech underscored a need for further education reform, a message likely to be a key part of his platform should he decide to run for president. As the potential GOP presidential field awaits his decision on a White House bid, Bush has said he'll make up his mind by the end of the year.
His push for Common Core has made him a target for conservative ire. Some Republicans, backed up by polling that indicates the program struggles in popularity, complain that the program interferes with local government control, by infusing more Washington bureaucracy in education.
The standards were developed by the bipartisan National Governors Association, state governments and nonprofit groups. But if states want a share of President Barack Obama's Race to the Top education grants, one of the ways to get it is by adopting Common Core. In that sense, the government created incentives for states to embrace the standards.
Bush stressed that the struggles faced by students in low-income schools is a "civil rights crisis," further arguing that "fixing our schools" must be one of the nation's most "urgent priorities."
On Common Core, Bush squarely hit back at critics who say the testing standards are too high.
"Let's get real about this," he said, ticking off statistics about poor performance among high school students preparing to go to college.
"The rigor of the Common Core state standards must be the new minimum in classrooms," ​he added, stressing the need to embrace challenging standards.
Some of the most vocal opponents of the program include Bush's potential GOP presidential rivals, like Sen. Rand Paul, who took a subtle jab at Bush last month over the issue, and Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, whose state sued the Obama administration.
Bush argued the debate has been "troubling" but said he believed "nobody in this debate has a bad motive."
Bush, who's also been an advocate for immigration reform, made no mention of Obama's plan to announce executive action on the issue Thursday night.
