(EW.com) -- Hey girl, you "don't need makeup," but a little lip gloss wouldn't hurt.
They may sing about natural beauty in the song "What Makes You Beautiful," but that's not stopping One Direction's Niall Horan, Zayn Malik, Liam Payne, Harry Styles and Louis Tomlinson from releasing a line of beauty products targeted at their female fan base.
The British pop group has teamed up with London-based makeup brand MUA Cosmetics to create "Little Things," a collection of lipstick, lip gloss, blush, and nail polish inspired by the guys' favorite colors and flavors.
EW: Making dollars on scents: One Direction, Scarlett Johansson, more stars strike perfume deals
Among the sure-to-be must-have products is a scented lip polish that comes with the promise of "super soft lips that smell good enough to eat." The balms come in five shades, which are named after each guy's favorite flavor — "Harry loves Strawberry," "Zayn loves Watermelon," "Louis loves Vanilla," "Niall loves Cherry," "Liam loves Blueberry" — so choose according to your particular 1D crush and pretend to pucker up. If you're not that innocent, the more mature "Kiss You" lipstick colors range from soft pink ("Moments") to siren red ("Be Mine").
EW: Full coverage of style and design
Cheek tints come in "Coral Cutie," "Pink Explosion," and "Rose Riot," but despite the, uh, cheeky names, each of the three shades is actually quite age-appropriate considering the band's young audience. Rounding out the collection is a line of five nail polish colors, each bottle bearing the countenance of a One Direction cutie.
According to the MUA Cosmetics website, each of the products in the line is priced under £3 (around $4.60 USD) and will be available "very soon!!" at www.superdrug.com. One Direction have already released a line of school supplies with Office Depot and a signature 1D fragrance is in the works. What's next? If their lyrics are any indication — "The way that you flip your hair gets me overwhelmed..." — hair products would a logical next step.
What do you think of the One Direction beauty collection? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.
See the original story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
