Arsenal's hopes of winning the English Premier League title were dealt a severe blow as Arsene Wenger's team conceded a heartbreaking 102nd-minute equalizer in a pulsating climax to Sunday's 1-1 draw with Liverpool.
Dutch striker Robin van Persie looked to have given the Gunners all three points, and closed the gap on leaders Manchester United to four points, with a penalty in the eighth minute of injury time at the Emirates Stadium.
But with the last kick of the game, Van Persie's compatriot Dirk Kuyt converted a spot-kick for Kenny Dalglish's team to hand the visitors an extraordinary leveler in the 12th minute of time added on.
The result left Arsenal six points behind Alex Ferguson's team with only six matches left of the season, ahead of United's trip to Newcastle on Tuesday and the Gunners' London derby at Tottenham the following evening.
Referee Andre Marriner allocated eight minutes of stoppage time after Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher received treatment on the field and was subsequently replaced following a clash of heads with young teammate John Flanagan. Liverpool also lost record signing Andy Carroll to a knee injury.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger was unhappy that play was allowed to continue for so long.
"I feel hard done by in the end because the time was over by three minutes," the Frenchman told reporters.
"But you have to take it and you continue to fight. Lucas played in an intelligent way. He stopped his run and the referee saw penalty, but what can you do about it?"
The draw dampened the Anfield club's hopes of playing Europa League football next season. The Merseysiders are four points behind fifth-placed Tottenham, having played two more games than Harry Redknapp's team.
Arsenal escaped an early penalty appeal when Swiss defender Johan Djourou tussled with Jay Spearing on his return from a dislocated shoulder, but could have gone ahead after 16 minutes when Laurent Koscielny rattled the crossbar from captain Cesc Fabregas' corner.
In a match of few chances, the breakthrough finally arrived for Arsenal deep into injury time when Spearing tripped Fabregas as the Spain midfielder looked to dribble through the Liverpool rearguard.
Van Persie stepped up to confidently dispatch the penalty for his 13th league goal of the campaign, sending goalkeeper Pepe Reina the wrong way, but Arsenal's defensive frailty was once again exposed.
Uruguay forward Luis Suarez saw his free-kick slam off the wall before Emmanuel Eboue inexplicably shoved Liverpool midfielder Lucas Leiva inside the box as the Brazilian looked to gather the loose ball.
Just like his international teammate, Kuyt coolly slotted home to steal a point for Liverpool.
Meanwhile, Stoke City will play Manchester City in the FA Cup final after a convincing 5-0 win over fellow Premier League side Bolton Wanderers at London's Wembley Stadium on Sunday.
Manchester City end United's treble bid
Stoke have never lifted the FA Cup in their 148-year history, but the four-time semifinalists booked their place in a first-ever final thanks to goals from Matthew Etherington, Robert Huth, Kenwyne Jones and a Jonathan Walters brace.
Owen Coyle's Bolton are four-time winners of the knockout competition, but the club's hopes of a first victory since 1958 were extinguished by three first-half goals.
Winger Etherington opened the scoring for Tony Pulis' team after 11 minutes when he rifled home a 20-yard shot from Jermaine Pennant's pass.
Stoke doubled the lead seven minutes later when Germany defender Huth took advantage of a sloppy clearance from Gary Cahill to find the bottom corner from the edge of penalty area.
It was 3-0 to the Staffordshire side after half an hour, when Trinidad and Tobago striker Jones provided a cool finish from another Pennant pass.
Republic of Ireland international Walters claimed his first goal after 68 minutes when he ran from inside Stoke's half before curling a wonderful finish beyond Bolton goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen.
The rout was complete with nine minutes remaining when Walters scuffed his shot over the veteran Finn from a Jones cross.
Stoke will return to England's national stadium on May 14 to face Roberto Mancini's City, who beat archrivals Manchester United 1-0 on Saturday.
