Ferrari's Fernando Alonso has said the Italian team were too slow at Sunday's Chinese Grand Prix as the legendary marque continued their stuttering start to the 2011 Formula One season.
The two-time world champion slipped from fifth position on the grid to a seventh place finish at the Shanghai International Circuit and the Spaniard is now 42 points behind current leader Sebastian Vettel in the drivers' championship after three races.
Alonso, 29, admitted he made a bad start in the year's third grand prix but maintained race strategy was not the reason behind Ferrari's low-scoring performance.
"Unfortunately, our race pace was too slow and I don't think that a different strategy would have changed anything," the former McLaren driver told Ferrari's official web site.
Proud Hamilton ends Vettel's winning run
"I made a bad start, Felipe Massa [Alonso's teammate] managed to get past me and a Force India nearly did the same, then it was a good battle on the opening lap. After the first pit stop, I lost too much time behind Michael [Schumacher], thus losing touch with the leading group.
"It was a good battle, but I would have preferred to have been doing it for a podium finish rather than seventh place."
Alonso insisted Ferrari can improve and once again challenge Vettel's front-running Red Bull team, citing the McLaren and Mercedes teams as examples to follow.
"I won't get downhearted or lose confidence. We know we have to improve to get to the front. McLaren and Mercedes have managed it and there is no reason to think we can't do the same."
Latest Formula One standings after round three
Team president Luca di Montezemolo demanded an improvement from all involved with the Maranello-based outfit, and he called upon Ferrari engineers to redouble their efforts in an attempt to increase the performance of the 150 Italia car.
"This cannot and must not be the team's level," the 63-year-old said.
"It's a very delicate moment. I expect our engineers to act with determination and know-how, unleashing the maximum of their capacity to improve the performance of the car in a short time.
"I want Ferrari to be at the level that both we and our fans demand it should be."
The Brazilian Massa faired marginally better than his colleague with a sixth place finish, but the 29-year-old disagreed with Alonso that race strategy played no part in the result.
"The strategy? Now, it's easy to say that we were not on the right one, but we are a team and we take our decisions together.
"Vettel made the same choice as us and we had a reasonably similar pace. Probably we would have finished on the podium, but we need to look into all the details with the engineers."
British driver Lewis Hamilton took the checkered flag for McLaren on Sunday to end reigning champion Vettel's 100% start to his title defense.
Ferrari's decision making hit the headlines at the end of the 2010 season when an error in race strategy cost Alonso a third world title at the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.
Formula now takes a three week break before the season's first race in Europe, the Turkish Grand Prix, on May 8.
