(The Frisky) -- Zillions of famous married men have affairs. Some actually stayed with their mistress.
Prince Charles
Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles met at a polo match in 1970 and dated for a little while. They split, though, and went on to marry others -- Charles famously got hitched to Lady Diana in 1981.
However, he and Camilla started secretly seeing each other in the '80s. Charles and Diana finally divorced in 1996.
Though Charles and Camilla stayed together, they kept a low profile, especially after Princess Diana died. It wasn't until 2005 that they walked down the aisle together.
Brad Pitt
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie aren't married and say they have no plans to do so. But they've been together for five years and have three biological children together and adopted two others jointly.
The two reportedly fell in love on the set of "Mr. and Mrs. Smith" when he was still married to Jennifer Aniston.
The Frisky: I slept with your husband -- here's why
Mel Gibson
When Mel Gibson's almost 30-year marriage went belly-up, he wasted no time bringing his new woman, Russian pianist Oksana Grigorieva, out in public. Within a month, he confirmed that Oksana was pregnant and they had a baby together in December. But, naturally, they've split. Rumor has it that Mel was unfaithful to her, too.
Humphrey Bogart
Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall first teamed up on the movie "To Have and Have Not," when she was 19 and he was 45. They fell in love and began an affair -- Bogart was unhappily married at the time. After they shot their second movie together, Bogart filed for divorce and the two were married.
Howard Hawks famously said of them, "Bogie fell in love with the character she played, so she had to keep playing it the rest of her life."
Ethan Hawke
Uma Thurman and Ethan Hawke seemed like the perfect couple -- heck, they met on the set of the most awesome movie ever, "Gattaca." But in 2004, they divorced and both seemed pretty tortured by the decision.
Rumors flew that Ethan was having an affair with a 22-year-old model. But it turns out things were even worse; he allegedly was getting too close to the family's own nanny, Ryan Shawhughes. He also went on to marry her and they had a baby together in 2008.
The Frisky: 10 stars who (maybe) have secret babies
Tiki Barber
Tiki Barber didn't just cheat on his wife who is pregnant with twins -- he left her at the 8-months-pregnant mark for the other woman, Traci Lynn Johnson, who started out as his intern at NBC. Only time will tell if these two stay together, but for now, they're on.
Donald Trump
Many years before "The Apprentice," Donald Trump fired his first wife, Ivana Trump, in favor of his mistress, Marla Maples. Which led Ivana to utter her legendary line: "Don't get mad. Get everything."
Ryan Phillippe
Ryan Phillippe was reportedly close to "Stop-Loss" co-star Abbie Cornish when Reese Witherspoon filed for divorce. Soon after, Ryan officially began dating Abbie. Amazingly, the two stayed together for three years, just splitting recently.
Steve McQueen
"King of Cool" Steve McQueen reportedly cheated on his first wife with Ali McGraw and married her after getting divorced. Then he allegedly cheated on Ali with model Barbara Minty. He went on to marry Barbara, but sadly died less than a year later.
The Frisky: Another celeb Photoshopped into thinness?
Billy Crudup
Billy Crudup became public enemy number one when he left a 7-months-pregnant Mary-Louise Parker for the much younger Claire Danes.
Again, the new couple had some staying power, though, lasting from 2004 to 2006. At which point, Claire fell for a Billy lookalike, Hugh Dancy, on the set of "Evening" and reportedly began an affair with him. Hey, what goes around comes around.
TM & © 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
