It's a long way from the bits and bytes of Silicon Valley to the bright lights of Broadway. But former Facebook exec Randi Zuckerberg is ready for her turn on stage.
Zuckerberg, the sister of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, will do a two-week stint in "Rock of Ages," the Tony Award-nominated musical that celebrates the glam-metal rock of the 1980s.
Her appearance is part of a "social networking" promotion by the show, now in its fifth year. (It also inspired a 2012 movie with Tom Cruise.)
"For over 2,000 performances 'Rock of Ages' has taken audiences on a wild ride back to when 'social' meant something very different," producer Matthew Weaver said on the show's website.
"Every performance, for the last five years, has delivered an incredible onstage and audience experience, earning the show its title as Broadway's Best Party. So for the next four weeks, kicking off with Randi Zuckerberg, we're going to be 'sharing' the love with our audiences with a ton of fun surprises."
Zuckerberg, now CEO of Zuckerberg Media and author of New York Times bestseller, "Dot Complicated: Untangling Our Wired Lives," confirmed as much on her Facebook page.
"Friends, it's official! I'm joining the cast of Rock of Ages on Broadway from March 14-28!!! #LifeDreamComeTrue #Iwannarock," she wrote.
It's her first time on Broadway -- and likely a first for any dotcom exec -- but Zuckerberg is no stranger behind the microphone. She sings in a band called Feedbomb, made up of current and former Facebook employees.
The lighthearted group's numbers range from Cee-Lo's "Forget You" to a Carly Rae Jepsen parody, "Fund Me Maybe."
"Theater-going is one of the few sacred activities where audiences truly unplug and enjoy the moment with the live entertainment right in front of them," Zuckerberg said in the statement. "It's been a lifelong dream for me to perform on Broadway. I thought I needed to shelve those dreams for my career, but this experience has taught me that there are multiple paths to achieving our dreams.
"In the age of social media where we share both our professional and our personal lives, having a successful career no longer means putting your hobbies and passions aside. As a New Yorker, a theater-lover, and a child of the 80s, I couldn't be more thrilled for the opportunity to perform in 'Rock of Ages' on Broadway."
Zuckerberg will play city planner Regina, whose numbers include Twisted Sister's "We're Not Gonna Take It" and Jefferson Starship's "We Built This City."
Other songs in the show include Quiet Riot's "Cum on Feel the Noize," Night Ranger's "Sister Christian" and Poison's "Every Rose Has Its Thorn" but not, curiously, Def Leppard's "Rock of Ages."
