The morning after Thailand's military came clean and admitted their operation to restore order was in fact a coup, the capital appeared normal with shops open and commuters heading for work -- though schools were shuttered.
Surprisingly, there was not much of a military presence on the streets, with the exception of the heavily-armed troops stationed outside key buildings in the city, including the Defense Ministry and the Army Club.
We spotted only four soldiers in their camouflaged fatigues during our journey around Bangkok -- though more were undoubtedly deployed overnight following the imposition of a curfew between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m.
Every now and then vehicles with darkened windows arrived at the Army Club, where the coup was declared, to deliver those people summoned by the military administration. Anyone who didn't accept this invitation faced an arrest warrant.
Military officials haven't provided much explanation about the reasons for the summonses, saying only that it's necessary "to ensure smooth operation of restoration of peace and order."
There were rumors that TV stations were slowly returning to air after being switched off by the military, though foreign news stations such as CNN and the BBC remain blacked out.
Meanwhile, protest sites belonging to both "red shirt" supporters of ousted former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, and the "yellow shirt" protesters associated with Bangkok's urban elite and middle class have emptied -- the detritus from their long struggle all that's left.
These cities within a city have stood for months. The yellow shirts' former camp by the Democracy Monument is now a mountain of rubbish and abandoned tents awaiting removal by the army of municipal workers with their trucks and cranes.
Many of the refuse workers seemed cheerful as they started the massive cleanup operation, seemingly oblivious to the seismic political shift going on around them.
It certainly doesn't feel like a coup as you would imagine it.
But after months of protests -- and periodic outbreaks of violence -- many ordinary Thais seem content to let this play out for the time being, with many of the opinion that anything that avoids further chaos and might help to resolve the political conflict is a good thing.
