Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel traveled to Afghanistan this weekend, his fourth and last trip to the country as he makes way for his likely  replacement, Defense Secretary nominee Ashton Carter.
CNN traveled with Hagel to tactical base Gamberi in Eastern Afghanistan, where the outgoing defense secretary met with troops.
Hagel is the first enlisted combat veteran to serve as defense secretary.
Asked by CNN whether it will be a loss for the Pentagon to have a defense secretary without combat experience, Hagel said he will not judge.
"That's not for me to decide," Hagel said.  "Everybody brings to their positions their own set of experiences and their own strengths."
Hagel: More U.S. troops than planned will remain in Afghanistan next year
At the end of December, U.S. forces will end their combat role in Afghanistan and instead focus on counterterrorism missions and training, advising and assisting Afghan troops.
The U.S. made a similar investment in Iraq, training Iraqi security forces that later collapsed as the terror group ISIS advanced in the country.
Hagel does not see Afghanistan's security force buckling like in Iraq, citing Afghanistan's willingness to sign an agreement allowing a residual American troop presence in the country.
"They want us here. They want us to help them assist, advise, train," Hagel said. "How we left Iraq was totally different. The Iraqi government did not want us there. The Iraqi people did not want us there."
Nearly 11,000 U.S. troops will remain in Afghanistan in the beginning of 2015. American forces will drop to 5,500 in 2016 and by 2017 the coalition will consolidate to Kabul.
Still, while the U.S. draws down in Afghanistan the danger for forces remaining in the country does not. US troops will engage in combat if threatened and will provide air support for Afghan units if needed.
"Bottom line is we've got to realize this is still a war zone, this is still a war," Hagel said.
Hagel's visit comes as the capital city has seen a recent spike in violence.  But Taliban attacks are down in 2014 when compared to the previous year.
Hagel said he has confidence in the Afghan security forces ability to protect Afghanistan from terror by the hands of al Qaeda and the Taliban.
"[There are] still challenges ahead, but I think every sign is that they can do this," Hagel said.
