Ray J Norwood pleaded no contest to trespassing to settle charges that he grabbed a woman's buttocks, smashed a police car window and spat on a cop, a prosecutor said Thursday.
Norwood, infamous as Kim Kardashian's partner in the sex tape that launched her reality show career, was arrested after an incident at a Beverly Hills hotel on May 30.
Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Edward Moreton sentenced Norwood, 33, to three years of probation and 50 hours of community service for the trespassing conviction. He'll also have to attend alcohol therapy and anger management classes.
Norwood also is banned from the Regent Beverly Wilshire Hotel, to which he must pay restitution determined at a hearing in December.
The singer-reality TV star was charged last month with four misdemeanor counts of sexual battery, vandalism, resisting arrest and battery.
Beverly Hills police arrested him at the hotel after a woman complained that he "grabbed her buttocks," a police statement said. Although the initial police report said it was decided that the "contact was incidental," the complaint alleged that it was sexual battery because Ray J did "unlawfully touch an intimate part" of the woman for the "specific purpose of sexual arousal, sexual gratification and sexual abuse."
The vandalism, battery and resisting arrest charges stemmed from what happened after police arrived at the hotel. Norwood "became belligerent with the valets and refused to leave," despite repeated requests by hotel security, the police statement said.
"After the uniform police officers took Mr. Norwood into custody and placed him in the rear of a police vehicle, he became belligerent and used his feet to shatter the side window of the police vehicle," the police statement said. "Mr. Norwood was subsequently removed from the police vehicle in order to restrain his feet; at which time he became combative and spat into the face of one of the officers."
Ray J's publicist did not respond to CNN request for comment.
Discovery cancels 'Sons of Guns' after Will Hayden's rape arrest
