Los Angeles Galaxy's David Beckham suffered a groin injury on a miserable night for Bruce Arena's team, as they were beaten 3-0 by FC Dallas in Major League Soccer's (MLS) Western Conference final on Sunday.
Beckham, who only recently returned from an Achilles injury sustained while on loan at Italian giants AC Milan, continued to play despite the strain he picked up early in the match at the Galaxy's Home Depot Center stadium.
A first half goal from Colombian David Ferreira was added to in the second period by strikes from 23-year-old George John and Honduran Marvin Chavez to give Dallas the win, a result which ended Galaxy's hopes of winning a third MLS cup.
"It's just disappointing we've gone out the way we've gone out," Beckham told the league's official website.
"[In the] first two minutes, I pulled my abductor. It wore off a little, but obviously had nothing to do with our loss."
Former U.S. national team coach Arena admitted he was aware of the injury and had considered substituting the 35-year-old, but he decided against it and went on to praise the attitude of his star player.
"We saw in the very beginning of the game probably 15 minutes in, he had a problem. He hung in there," said Arena.
"If we have all of our players with his kind of character and commitment, we would continue to do well."
Team-captain Landon Donovan revealed the former Real Madrid midfielder has been playing through the pain barrier for sometime.
"He hasn't been at full strength since he's been back. When you come back that quickly at that age from an Achilles injury, there are going to be residual effects.
"My hat's off to him. He played through a lot of pain those last few weeks, more than you guys know, but he's a competitor and he wants to keep going."
Beckham's earlier ankle injury destroyed his dreams of playing for England in the 2010 World Cup, but he has played the full 90 minutes in four of Los Angeles' last five games since his return to the team.
Dallas will now compete in the final championship game -- the decider for the MLS title -- against Colorado Rapids, who beat San Jose Earthquakes 1-0 in the Eastern Conference final thanks to a goal from Kosuke Kimura.
The last game of the MLS season will take place on November 21 at Toronto's BMO Field.
