Heavyweight Dereck Chisora faces being sanctioned by the British Boxing Board of Control, after being called to a hearing next month following his brawl with fellow-Briton David Haye at a press conference on Saturday.
Despite Chisora issuing an apology for the fracas, which occured after his points defeat to WBC champion Vitali Klitschko in Munich, the BBBC has released a statement saying that a hearing has been arranged for March 14.
Board secretary Robert Smith said: "Dereck Chisora has been called to appear before the stewards of the British Boxing Board of Control on Wednesday, 14th March under Regulation 25 (misconduct), with regard to his behavior prior, during and after his contest for the World Boxing Council heavyweight championship against Vitali Klitschko on Saturday, 18th February in Munich."
Haye -- who retired from boxing following his defeat to Klitschko's younger brother Wladimir last year and is therefore not under the jurisdiction of the BBBC -- had appeared at the press conference to take issue with Vitali's management, who he claims have reneged on a deal to fight him later this year.
But he soon became embroiled in a shouting match with Chisora, which resulted in the 28-year-old leaving his seat on the stage to confront Haye -- resulting in an unseemly brawl which saw Haye's manager Adam Booth receive a gash to his forehead.
During the incident, Chisora threatened to "shoot" Haye a number of times and the Zimbabwe-born boxer has now "wholeheartedly apologized" for his "inexcusable" actions.
"I feel I must wholeheartedly apologize for my part in the regrettable scenes both before and after what was to be the biggest night of my career," Chisora said in a statement.
"Whilst my behavior was inexcusable, there were many things that went on behind the scenes that ultimately caused my frustrations to boil over, however this is of course no excuse."
He added: "I cannot go into the specific details at the moment as quite rightly the British Boxing Board of Control will be investigating this matter.
"The bottom line is I have let my family, my team and, worst of all, the sport I love down. I acknowledge that my actions were totally unprofessional, with or without provocation.
"I have a duty as a professional boxer to conduct myself properly at all times, especially with boxing being a sport of controlled aggression. I have let lots of people down on Saturday night, including myself, and for that I am truly sorry."
Haye, who relinquished his boxing license in October when he officially retired, also issued a statement, although he stopped short of apologizing and pinned the blame for the fracas squarely on Chisora's shoulders.
He said: "I realise I am no angel -- and don't mind a bit of professional trash-talk to help raise boxing's profile -- but, during my 21 years in the sport, I have never been involved in, or even witnessed, such a serious fracas.
"I shall happily assist the boxing authorities with any investigation they wish to launch and, ultimately, hope that all lessons learned from this will be implemented."
The brawl was the final act of a controversial weekend for Chisora, who received widespread criticism for slapping Klitschko during the pre-fight weight-in.
And Haye continued his statement by adding: "Moments before declaring he wanted to go face-to-face with me, Chisora assured the gathered media that he would give me 'two slaps'.
"His weekend had already been shrouded in controversy but, despite this, Chisora climbed down from the top table, removed his robe and then walked towards me, entourage in tow, in an aggressive manner.
"I held my ground, but, unfortunately, he caused a serious disturbance to occur, something which threatened to damage the reputation of the sport we both love."
The incident, during which Chisora claimed Haye hit him over the head with a bottle, is still being investigated by Munich police, although police spokesman Gottfried Schlicht said: "Until we speak to David Haye, nothing more can happen.
"We need both sides. We have heard from Dereck Chisora and now we wait to hear from David Haye."
