Prince William splashed down a helicopter in a Canadian lake Monday, while his newlywed bride Catherine watched from shore -- all part of a full slate of activities on Prince Edward Island on the fifth day of the royal couple's Canadian tour.
Intermittent rain did not prevent the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge from enjoying a host of events on the island, which borders the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of St. Lawrence. That included racing in dueling dragon boats, being ceremonially "smudged" at a beach and savoring seafood on the sand.
The royals' day began with a visit to Province House, the second-oldest active legislature building in Canada. There, they greeted many of the hundreds of people who'd gathered for a look at the newlyweds.
Afterward, the couple headed to Dalvay-by-the-Sea. There, Prince William -- a military helicopter pilot by training -- joined his Canadian counterparts in taking part in a "waterbird" emergency landing in a nearby lake.
In the exercise, which was originated by Canadian armed forces for use in search-and-rescue missions, the helicopter's engine is cut off and it then lands in the water. When it was about one-quarter submerged, the propellers were restarted to bring William and others on board back into the sky.
Both William and his wife then boarded dueling dragon boats with others for a race. Other highlights on Monday included musical performances in the rain and a lobster bake on the beach.
Later Monday, the royal couple will fly for roughly 2,300 miles to Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, for the next phase of their trip.
William and Catherine are expected to visit a total of four provinces during their nine-day tour -- their first official foreign trip as a married couple. After the Northwest Territories, they will go to Alberta.
Their upbeat if occasionally soaked Prince Edward Island visit came a day after the most controversial stop on their tour in the French-speaking province of Quebec.
William and Catherine attended a "Freedom of the City" ceremony at Quebec City Hall, where the prince addressed the crowd in French after being met by cheering supporters.  Nearby, a small but vocal group of anti-monarchy protesters gathered.
Canadian broadcaster CBC reports that Quebec's relationship with the monarchy has often been strained, with the Queen met by booing protesters on a visit to the province in 1964.
The royal couple also visited Maison Dauphine, a center that provides assistance to troubled street youth in Quebec. They posed for pictures and seemed at ease as artists showed off their work. The prince played a quick game of foosball.
After they wrap up their Canadian tour on Friday, the duke and duchess will head to California for three days.
CNN's Max Foster contributed to this report.
