Third seed Roger Federer has crashed out of the Rogers Cup in Montreal, after losing 7-6 4-6 6-1 to Frenchman Jo-Wilfried Tsonga on Thursday.
In a repeat of their recent Wimbledon quarterfinal, 13th seed Tsonga defeated the 16-time grand slam winner to set up a last eight clash with Spaniard Nicolas Almagro.
Federer, 30, looked to have given himself a chance of winning the contest at the Uniprix Stadium when he claimed the second set, but world number 16 Tsonga rallied to emphatically clinch the third and deciding set in convincing style.
"He's confident right now and he played an excellent third set," Federer told the ATP Tour's official web site.
"The first two sets were tighter. I should maybe have won the first one as I had some opportunities.
"In the second I was able to hold my serve. I might have won, but he was able to finish off the match very well."
Tsonga's triumph on Thursday was his third career win over Federer, and he was pleased with his level of performance in the match.
"[This] is the match I played best," said Tsonga reflecting on his previous encounters with Federer. "I really played good tonight. I was opportunistic. I didn't miss any opportunities I had. I was able to break before he did. I'm very happy the way I won this match."
Eighth seed Almagro advanced courtesy of a straight-sets 7-6 6-3 victory against Tsonga's compatriot Richard Gasquet.
World number one Novak Djokovic, playing in his first tournament as world number one, eased past Croat Marin Cilic 7-5 6-2.
Djokovic has already won the Australian Open and Wimbledon titles this year and will face Gael Monfils in the quarterfinals.
Monfils, seeded fifth, battled back from one-set down to overcome Djokovic's Davis Cup teammate Viktor Troicki.
The Frenchman Monfils saved three match points on his way to a 3-6 7-6 7-6 win.
American number one Mardy Fish beat Ernests Gulbis 4-6 6-3 6-4 to set up a match with Stanislas Wawrinka in the next round, who defeated South African Kevin Anderson.
Seventh seed Tomas Berdych is also safely through after dispatching of Croat Ivo Karlovic 6-3 7-6 (7-2).
The final round of 16 match saw Janko Tipsarevic defeat Rafael Nadal's conqueror Ivan Dodig 6-1 6-4.
