Captain Colin Montgomerie has picked Edoardo Molinari, Luke Donald and Padraig Harrington as wild cards to complete his European Ryder Cup team.
Montgomerie's decision means English duo Paul Casey and Justin Rose both miss out on a place, despite Rose winning twice on the PGA Tour this season and Casey sitting ninth in the world rankings.
Molinari, a European Tour rookie, secured his inclusion with a sparkling victory at the Johnnie Walker Classic, where he birdied the final three holes to win by a shot.
The Italian takes his place in the team alongside brother Francesco as Europe try to regain the trophy from America -- the first time brothers will have competed in the Ryder Cup.
Swede Peter Hanson and Spaniard Miguel Angel Jiminez both cemented their places in the team with their performances at the Gleneagles tournament.
Harrington is included despite a disappointing year, though the Irishman did finish second at the Irish Open earlier this month and performed well in the opening three rounds of the Barclays tournament in New Jersey. Donald has had a solid year but boasts a strong Ryder Cup record.
Those players join English trio Lee Westwood, Ian Poulter and Ross Fisher, Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell from Northern Ireland and Germany's Martin Kaymer in the 12-strong team.
Montgomerie also announced that Spain's Sergio Garcia would be joining his team as a vice captain to work alongside existing trio Darren Clarke, Thomas Bjorn and Paul McGinley.
Explaining his picks, Montgomerie told a press conference: "Padraig Harrington has won three majors in the last three years. The stature of Padraig Harrington is such that we feel nobody in matchplay golf would want to play against him. He's a great competitor.
"Luke Donald is someone who can compete in the foursomes and fourballs and not just the singles. He's played seven times in the Ryder Cup and only lost once.
"And Edoardo Molinari, what can one say about his performance today? In my time on the European Tour, over 24 years, I don't think I've seen a finish of that quality under that pressure by anyone, ever. All credit to him, having to win and doing just that.
"We [the vice captains] are all unanimous in our decision that we have the strongest possible team for Europe. I just want to think positively about the team that we have selected. I think the three picks are strong in every way.
"Since my day -- I was a Ryder Cup rookie in 1991 -- I don't think any captain has had the difficulty I have had today picking three from a possible ten."
American captain Corey Pavin announces his four wild card picks on September 7 before the Ryder Cup gets underway at Celtic Manor in Wales on October 1.
