Just a few years ago, not many people would believe that an independent film director would be put in charge of resurrecting one of the most popular superheroes of all time on the big screen.
Yet Marc Webb, best known for "(500) Days of Summer," rebooted "The Amazing Spider-Man" on the big screen: a gamble which paid off to the tune of $262 million in the U.S. this past summer.
With Jamie Foxx already rumored to play the villain Electro in the 2014 sequel, Webb spoke to CNN about the experience making the hit movie (out on Blu-ray this Friday), and looked ahead to the next installment.
(If you haven't seen the movie, be forewarned there are spoilers ahead.)
CNN: Now that you've had a little time to the reflect, what surprised you most about the reaction?
Webb: We did a big press tour around the world and it was extraordinary to see the level of enthusiasm. In Europe, Asia and everywhere else, it's staggering the pervasiveness of Spider-Man.
People reacted well to the Peter (Parker) and Gwen (Stacy) storyline. That was great. More than action, spectacle, superheroes or anything else, what goes on between two people in a room, whether it's anger or love or sometimes both is important. Creating a relatable, emotional space with the characters was crucial. That breakup scene -- Andrew and Emma were really great in that. I have to take my hat off to those actors for that.
What was fun was how curious people were about Peter's parents. The long shadow of that mystery was cast over the film. It was really encouraging that that gamble paid off. Even though we didn't quite solve it.
CNN: What was your favorite reaction to the film?
Webb: In Japan people were really moved by the crane moment. They felt inspired by people coming together. It was nice that it came across. It came across stronger in Japan than Korea. Different parts of the world reacted differently to different things.
CNN: What was the most difficult thing to pull off?
Webb: You realize how many fans are in that universe. The intensity of the fans was really overwhelming for me, and also inspiring, but also intimidating. You understand their love of the characters and you want to make them happy, but you want to surprise them as well.
When I did "Summer," nobody cared. I was desperate for some publicity.
With this there was too much publicity and too many websites talking about our movie. You want to make a movie in private to create and experiment but that's not the way of a big franchise. You want to create performances as great as any independent film, it's not about big or small. It's about finding something special.
CNN: Would you ideally hope that this becomes a trilogy?
Webb: That's too far in the future, but I'm having a great time. I'm having a really great time.
CNN: What themes do you want to explore more in the next movie? What should DVD and Blu-Ray viewers look for in preparing for the sequel?
Webb: There's a lot more to explore with the parents. The Gwen Stacy saga is going to unfold in an interesting way.
CNN: You and Andrew Garfield were confirmed for the sequel. Is Emma Stone likely to return as well?
Webb: Emma will be back. Believe you me.
