(CNN Student News) -- May 21, 2014
Martial law is declared in Thailand, an Oklahoma town remembers a devastating storm, and a museum gift shop causes controversy in New York: We have it all covered today on CNN Student News. We'll also look into the symbiotic relationship between Hollywood and the military, and we'll show you the throw-and-catch play that made a high school athlete famous.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might a news story about the anniversary of a natural disaster differ from the original report on the day that it happened?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. martial law
2. EF5 tornado
3. symbiotic relationship
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is martial law? In what Southeast Asian country has martial law been declared? What is the source of tensions there? Why does the army say it has imposed martial law? For how long is martial law expected to last?
2. What tragedy struck Moore, Oklahoma, one year ago? How powerful was this storm? What toll did it take in terms of lives and property?
3. What museum is holding its public opening in New York City today? What is the focus of this museum? According to the video, how is this museum different from some others? Why is there controversy surrounding its gift shop? What does Jim Riches, who lost his son on 9/11, say about the museum's gift shop? How does Joe Daniels, the president and CEO of the museum, respond? What does museum board member Lee Ielpi, who lost his son on 9/11, say about the gift shop?
4. According to the video: What are some movies in which the U.S. military has had a "starring role"? What kind of relationship have the U.S. military and Hollywood had since World War II? How do movie producers and the military each benefit from this relationship? What is authenticity? Why is authenticity important to Hollywood? How does the role of the military in the movies impact those who may want to serve as well as those already in service? Why do some criticize the use of the military for film cameos? How might combat portrayal in movies differ from real-life combat?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion of the gift shop at the 9/11 Memorial Museum? Explain. If you were discussing this with a person who had the opposite point of view, what points might you bring up? What would you expect to hear in response?
2. Why do you think that the U.S. military sometimes offers its expertise and resources to the movie industry? How do you think the military hopes to benefit from this arrangement? How do you think that the movie industry hopes to benefit? Do you think there are any downsides to this arrangement? Explain. Can you think of any other professions that benefit from a similar business relationship? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
