[WARNING: The following contains spoilers for the "Doctor Who" season finale.]
Permission to squee?
Saturday night's "Doctor Who" season finale was a roller coaster of feels, with deaths, goodbyes and one incredible James Bond-esque move by the Doctor.
It was the end of the first season of Peter Capaldi as the Twelfth Doctor.
Here are five moments that had us cheering or reaching for the tissues:
1. The Master kills Osgood
This one really hurt. UNIT captured the Master and made the Doctor the president of Earth, as they faced a massive invasion by dead-people-turned-Cybermen.
The Master tried the old talking-to-your-captor trick to bowtie-wearing geek Osgood ("Bowties are cool," after all), telling Osgood that she was about to be killed within 60 seconds.
Unfortunately for Osgood, the Master was no longer handcuffed and made good on her promise.
It was part of a terrific nutso performance by Michelle Gomez as the Master, but we'll really miss Osgood, who was like the ultimate "Doctor Who" fan.
2. Windsurfing into the TARDIS
The plane that carried the Doctor and members of UNIT exploded, and the Doctor was sent flying out of it, about to crash to the ground. Was this how it would all end?
Instead, the Doctor spotted the TARDIS and aimed himself to land right inside it. Wow!
The Master's AI interface assistant Seb was quite impressed by this, but the Master destroyed him as he squeed.
3. Clara reunites with Danny
After talking her way out of being killed by the Cybermen by impersonating the Doctor, Clara found herself in a graveyard, and discovered that an approaching Cyberman was her late boyfriend, Danny, who still had emotions, but was begging her to switch them off.
The Doctor arrived in time to tell her not to do it, but the Master did as well. After a heart-wrenching exchange among all of them, Danny and Clara said one last goodbye, as Clara took his sonic screwdriver and aimed it right at him, making him emotionless.
However, he was able to take control of the Cybermen and fly them away, blowing themselves up and foiling the Master's plan.
4. Kate Stewart's father kills the Master
Clara was determined to kill the Master, but she turned over the Master's vaporizing remote control over to the Doctor, but then the Master was vaporized by someone else: the Cyberman version of the Doctor's old friend, UNIT's Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart. Poetic justice.
5. Clara's goodbye
Two weeks later, when Clara (Jenna Coleman) was awakened by a portal from the afterlife, she heard from Danny, who sacrificed his one chance to return to life by returning the young boy he had accidentally killed while he was a soldier.
Clara and the Doctor later met at a restaurant, where she broke the news to him that she couldn't travel with him any longer. He assumed it was because she was back together with Danny, and she wouldn't tell him otherwise.
The Doctor had news for her as well: The Master gave him the coordinates for Gallifrey and he found it. But we saw the reality: It wasn't there, and the Doctor destroyed the TARDIS' control panel in frustration.
Clara hugged the Doctor, something he never likes doing, and told him, "Doctor, traveling with you made me feel really special. Thank you for that. Thank you for making me feel special."
He thanked her for the same. Don't mind us, we've got something in our eye.
Capaldi's message to grieving boy
But it wasn't over: The Doctor got a visit from Santa Claus, played by Nick Frost. What does the Christmas special hold for us?
Fans on Twitter had a lot to say about this finale, and they had mixed feelings.
"It's one of Moffat's trickiest finales ever," tweeted Andy Behbakht.
"While he wrapped up Series 8 in a pleasing way, I felt something big was missing."
"I have so many feels right now," said @GoodnightGoldie.
"Loved it! Can't wait for, can't believe I'm saying it...Christmas!"
Franklin Harris summed it up as "A thrilling conclusion to an uneven season that showed the strengths and weaknesses of producer Steven Moffat's fairytale approach."
"I just don't even know what to do with myself," admitted Kendall Ashley.
"That ending was tragic, and Clara and the Doctor NEED each other right now!"
What did you think? Share your comments below.
