Are you among those who have been pondering the future of cricket in the wake of the recent spot-fixing scandal involving three former members of the Pakistan cricket team?
Maybe you are concerned about proposals to reduce the amount of teams for the 2015 Cricket World Cup to ten or perhaps you simply want to know more about plans to introduce a Test Championship that would crown a world champion of the five-day game.
Here is your chance to put your questions to the man with all the answers, Haroon Lorgat, the chief executive of the International Cricket Council (ICC), which governs the sport internationally.
Lorgat will speak exclusively to CNN in London on Wednesday May 11 and answer any burning questions you may have about the major trends and developments in cricket -- all you have to do is add your query to the bottom of the page.
Cricket plans Test league to crown world champion
Born in South Africa and of Indian descent, Lorgat succeeded Malcolm Speed as head of the ICC in 2008.
Trained as a chartered accountant, Lorgat cut his cricketing teeth as an all-rounder in South Africa, where he played 76 first-class games between 1977 and 1991.
Dhoni leads India to Cricket World Cup glory
The 50-year-old then served as chairman of Western Province Professional Cricket, a national selector and non-executive director for Cricket South Africa and chairman of the national selectors for the South African cricket team.
His vast experience in the game is now being put to work at the ICC, where he is keen to restructure the international game.
Pakistan trio banned by cricket's anti-corruption body
The ICC's Cricket Committee will be meeting in London this week with such items on the agenda as the possibility of playing Test matches at night under floodlights and the continued progress of the Decision Review System, whereby teams can refer umpiring decisions to a video match official.
The ICC recently handed out lengthy bans to Pakistani trio Salman Butt, Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Amir after they were found to have been involved in "spot-fixing" -- a practice involving illegal gambling during matches.
So, with plenty going on in the modern game, leave your questions for Haroon Lorgat below.
