Five people were shot -- four fatally -- at a Seattle, Washington, home Thursday, according to police.
Assistant Police Chief Jim Pugel told CNN that a relative of some of the victims who was not in the house believed that a 59-year-old woman, who was the mother of some of the victims, committed the shooting. He told CNN affiliate KOMO TV that the shooter was an Asian female, and that the three other victims are believed to be family members or relatives.
Pugel also confirmed for CNN that the dead include two females believed to be in their late teens, a male believed to be in his 30s and the woman believed to be the shooter.
There was one survivor, according to Pugel, a woman believed to be in her 30s. Pugel told CNN affiliate KIRO TV that she was undergoing treatment at Harborview Medical Center.
She reportedly told emergency responders "my mom has gone crazy," Pugel said.
KIRO TV said the shooting was reported about 1:30 p.m. (4:30 p.m. ET) in the Highland Park neighborhood of west Seattle.
Pugel told KOMO that multiple units responded to the emergency call. He said the responders could hear shots being fired as they arrived. A man who was later determined to be a relative broke through the police line, according to Pugel, and got into the house. Pugel said it was possible that he was the suspect's husband. After he ran into the house, two more shots were fired, Pugel said, adding that the man ran back outside and claimed the woman had shot herself.
Pugel also told KOMO that a language barrier was hampering the investigation. He said they had specialists in Asian languages on the scene to assist. Pugel told KOMO that two handguns were found on the scene.
In footage obtained from KIRO, members of the Seattle Police Gang Unit could be seen, along with officers from the King County Sheriff's office. They were sealing off the crime scene as helicopters whirred overhead.
KIRO also spoke with a neighbor who heard some of the gunshots. Bobby Miller told KIRO that he ran outside when the gunfire rang out, and saw "all hell breaking loose."
CNN's Amanda Watts contributed to this report
