Cleanup and rebuilding from the epic Colorado floods will take years, but there are ways to help organizations making a difference now.
The American Red Cross
The American Red Cross is providing food, shelter and relief supplies to thousands of people forced from their homes. More than 250 trained Red Cross disaster workers are on the ground providing support.
The organization is encouraging evacuees to register on Safe and Well to let friends and family know they're safe. You can also search for people on the site. You can register online or call 1-800-Red-Cross (1-800-733-2767).
To make a monetary donation, visit the Colorado chapter website or you can text REDCROSS to 90999 to give $10 to American Red Cross Disaster Relief.
The Salvation Army
The Salvation Army has called in disaster services personnel from areas of California, Utah and Wyoming to meet the growing need for assistance.
In three days the organization has provided first responders and evacuees with more than 10,000 meals. Thanks to partnerships with King Soopers and Pepsi, close to 70,000 bottles of water have also been donated.
To prepare for the recovery process, The Salvation Army has ordered more than 2,000 flood cleanup kits.
To help with their efforts, visit www.imsalvationarmy.org or call 1-800-SAL-ARMY (1-800-725-2769) and designate "Colorado Floods." You may also text GIVEHOPEIM to 80888 to donate $10 to The Salvation Army.
Save the Children
Over the weekend, Save the Children opened a child-friendly space in one of the largest evacuation centers, Lifebridge Church in Longmont, to give children a safe place to play, express themselves and find a sense of normalcy amid the chaos. School will be closed until at least Thursday.
Save the Children is also a partner of the Red Cross in opening additional child-friendly spaces in shelters.
To donate to the U.S. Emergencies Fund, click here.
The United Way
Three funds for specific Colorado counties have been set up in conjunction with the local United Way offices to support long-term recovery efforts like transitional housing and health needs:
Boulder and Broomfield counties—Foothills Flood Relief Fund
Weld County--Weld County Flood Relief Fund
Larimer County--Larimer County Floods: Long-Term Recovery Fund
Helping Pets
The Boulder Valley Humane society has accepted more than 60 animals from displaced families and donations will allow the shelter to continue to care for them. Click here to help.
