John King and other top political reporters empty out their notebooks each Sunday to reveal five things that will be in the headlines in the days, weeks and months ahead.
One final 2014 showdown and several examples of post-election fallout filled a trip around the "Inside Politics" table that -- surprise -- included one note of possible bipartisan compromise.
1. The battle of the bayou appears one-sided
The December 6 Louisiana Senate runoff is the last 2014 showdown and, at least so far, it appears to be a lopsided affair.
GOP Rep. Bill Cassidy leads in the polls, and even most Democrats assign little or no hope to their incumbent, Sen. Mary Landrieu.
The Atlantic's Molly Ball noted how both candidates are using the "lame-duck" Congress to highlight their support for the Keystone XL pipeline. And she noted some details -- "facts on the ground" a good military analyst might say -- that suggest Cassidy has a huge advantage.
"The tea party candidate who came in third endorsed Cassidy, (Landrieu is) thought to be down by double digits and 90% of the advertising on the Louisiana air waves is in favor of Cassidy," said Ball. "So unless we see a big change in the dynamic in the Louisiana race as a result of the Keystone vote, Mary Landrieu has a real tough fight."
2. Leader Pelosi tries to help a friend, and irks some colleagues
Many long-serving House Democrats are lamenting at least two more years in the minority -- which means a lot less power and fewer perks.
So being a "ranking member" -- the top Democrat -- on a committee is, for the moment, the top prize available. Normally, seniority and past committee service are the criteria for these titles, but sometimes there are competitions, and in that case who you know can matter.
Ed O'Keefe of The Washington Post took us inside one such battle, in which Nancy Pelosi has a starring role.
"There's sort of a proxy battle for the top Democratic job on the House Energy and Commerce Committee," said O'Keefe.
"It pits New Jersey Democrat Frank Pallone, who has seniority, against California Democrat Anna Eshoo, who's a very good friend of Pelosi. She's been actively campaigning for Eshoo, twisting some arms, refusing to allow people to vote by proxy from a distance if they're unable to be here, generating a lot of bad blood and a few different rank-and-file members said this is just a little too high school for them."
3. Wait, there might actually be some Obama dealmaking?
Peter Baker of The New York Times shared reporting that President Obama is prepared to make a deal, so that he wins Senate confirmation for a number of administration appointees.
The goal: votes to get ambassadors and other appointees on the job, eliminating vacancies the White House says have undermined government performance.
The price: Baker reports that to get enough senators in both parties to sign off on the package, the President is prepared to withdraw several controversial nominees.
"President Obama has a lot of nominations still sitting there, languishing on the Hill," said Baker. "He's working with Harry Reid and Mitch McConnell to get a package deal through, pushing a bunch through, mostly career ambassadors, and tossing over to the side some of the more controversial ones, like nominee for surgeon general and that guy who wants to be ambassador to Norway, which is never busy."
4. Talk of undusting Obama's veto pen
A good deal of post-election analysis has raised the prospect of President Obama wielding his veto power more now that Republicans control both chambers of Congress.
But will that happen? Will the GOP, for example, be able to get enough votes in the Senate to join the House in voting to repeal Obamacare? Or to pass anything big for that matter?
NPR's Tamara Keith suggested there might be a lot more talk about vetoes than actual use of the veto pen.
"He's only used it twice in his entire presidency," said Keith.
"The first big test is coming up this week with the Keystone XL pipeline vote. The word is there are 59 votes and some optimism that maybe they'll get to 60 but maybe not. My question is how soon will he really have to use that veto pen and how frequently, given the close balance in the Senate."
5. In New Hampshire, a big GOP win sparks a Republican fight
New Hampshire Republicans lost races for governor and U.S. Senate this midterm year, but are celebrating their success in retaking control of the state House chamber.
Well, celebrating and fighting at the same time.
A former GOP speaker, Bill O'Brien, wants his old job back. But an array of Republican establishment figures are pushing an alternative candidate, arguing O'Brien is too conservative and, in their view, likely to hurt the GOP's image by pushing policies backed by the tea party and social conservatives.
Among those trying to block O'Brien: former Gov. John Sununu, former state GOP Chairman Steve Merrill and Republican Sen. Kelly Ayotte.
The buzz in Concord is about how rare it is for a U.S. senator to meddle in state legislative business. But those close to Ayotte say she and the others involved see this as a tea party vs. establishment battle they must fight.
Ayotte is up for re-election in 2016, a presidential year in which the electorate tends to be more favorable to Democrats. So Ayotte does not want two years of home state political debate about whether the New Hampshire GOP is too extreme.
Especially because the new House speaker would be regularly engaged in debates with Democratic Gov. Maggie Hassan -- who just won re-election and is the early choice of many state Democrats as their best Ayotte challenger.
