Antonio Margarito has apologized for mocking Manny Pacquiao's Parkinson's disease-afflicted boxing trainer Freddie Roach in a video that has spread like wildfire across the Internet.
The Mexican-American boxer made a surprise appearance at Thursday's press conference for the undercard bout between Brandon Rios -- who was also in the video -- and Omri Rowther in a bid to make peace ahead of Saturday's fight in Arlington, Texas.
"I want to apologize to everyone, Freddie Roach if he will accept my apologies," said Margarito, who was filmed shaking his hands in mock horror when a journalist told him Roach said Pacquiao would win by a knockout.
"To everyone with that disease ... I want to tell you, never, ever in my life would I make fun of anyone like that. I just want to let you know that I'm not the kind of person who would do anything like that, and make fun of anyone."
Rios also said sorry to the 50-year-old for his part in the viral clip, which was posted on video sharing website YouTube on Wednesday and showed the American boxer violently shaking his head and stammering.
"It was a bad video from my behalf. Things got heated up in the moment. And I'm sorry. I feel bad for saying it. Nothing personal. I feel bad," he said.
Robert Garcia, who trains both Maragarito and Rios, told reporters at the conference that he had spoken to Roach and his opposite number had accepted the apology.
"I told him, 'Freddie Roach, I want to tell you that I'm very sorry for what happened. Now that I am talking to you, I feel much better,' " Garcia said, adding that Roach replied: "I accept your apology. And best of luck this weekend."
Roach said he had been angry about the video, but was prepared to move on, the Sweet Science boxing site reported on Thursday.
"I wanted to fight them at first, of course I'm a little too old," he said. "I was very upset at first, I had trouble sleeping, thinking what to do about it. I thought it's best to take the high road, chalk it up to experience.
"They made a mistake, went too far -- but I think they should apologize to world and not just me. They went a little bit too far, tried to get under my skin but they're attacking a group of people -- not just me has Parkinson's.
"They apologized, they made a mistake, I accept it, let's get to the fight. I will not let it get to me or my fighter -- my fighter is smart and will stick to the game plan. They went a little bit too far, but we can all do that at times. I don't think they meant any harm in it."
Pacquiao and Margarito are fighting for the vacant WBC junior middleweight title at Cowboys Stadium, with Filipino fighter seeking to claim a belt in an unprecedented eighth class.
It is Pacquiao's second visit to the venue, having retained his WBO welterweight title there against Nigeria's Joshua Clottey in March.
Margarito comes into the fight with a record of 38 wins from 45 bouts, having won both the WBO and IBF welterweight titles.
However, the 32-year-old was mired in controversy after he was found to have used illegal handwraps during his WBA title defeat by Shane Mosley in January 2009, leading to him being banned by the California State Athletic Commission.
He returned in May to win the vacant WBC International light middleweight title from Roberto Garcia before being signed up by promoter Bob Arum, with Pacquiao still unable to seal a deal for his dream clash with Floyd Mayweather Junior.
