France will host golf's Ryder Cup for the first time in 2018, it was announced Tuesday.
Le Golf National course, on the outskirts of the capital Paris, was chosen to stage the 42nd edition of the biannual competition between Europe and the United States ahead of Germany, Portugal, Netherlands and favorites Spain.
There had been calls for the tournament to be given to Spain in memory of golfing great Seve Ballesteros, who died after a long battle with cancer earlier this month. The five-time major winner was patron of the Madrid bid.
But the European Tour resisted the emotional draw of the Spanish bid, much to the delight of the French delegation.
Water hazard! $500 million floating golf course planned for Maldives
They have promised to boost the sport at grass roots level by building 100 urban courses in the country and pledged to increase the number of registered players by 300,000 to 700,000 by 2022.
Every registered golfer in France donated one euro ($1.41) to the cause and now the country can expect the big financial bonus from business and tourism that comes with hosting the event.
Richard Hills, Europe's Ryder Cup Director, told the European Tour's official web site: "We have one worthy gold medallist in France, who gave us the confidence to believe that they will stage a truly memorable Ryder Cup in seven years time.
"France, as the successful nation, will now be entering into a multi-faceted relationship with Ryder Cup Europe, lasting a minimum of 12 years and benefiting many aspects of golf at all levels.
"All of us at Ryder Cup Europe look forward to working closely with the French Ryder Cup 2018 team in the coming years."
The announcement was celebrated heartily by the French delegation, which included golfers Thomas Levet and Jean Van de Velde, who represented Europe in the 2004 and 1999 Ryder Cups respectively.
The last, thrilling, installment, in 2010, was won by Europe at Celtic Manor in Wales, when captain Colin Montgomerie led his team to victory by 14 1/2 points to 13 1/2.
Pascal Grizot, chairman of the French Ryder Cup bid, said: "We've always believed it could happen. My greatest satisfaction is to have brought everyone together to believe it too.
"French golf united and this did not go unnoticed by the European Tour. This huge victory is one for everyone connected to French golf."
Regarding Ballesteros he added: "We all remember Severiano Ballesteros as an icon in our sport and someone who epitomized the spirit of the Ryder Cup. He is in our thoughts today."
Georges Barbaret, President of the French Golf Federation, added: "I can't wait for 2018. We have always believed in the link between culture and sport which I'm sure will make the Ryder Cup in France a unique event that will leave everlasting memories."
