An intense manhunt was under way Monday for Chester Stiles, a 37-year old man whom police say is a suspect in the videotaped rape of a 3-year-old girl four years ago.
Chester Arthur Stiles, 37, of Nevada is being sought as a suspect in the videotaped rape of a 3-year-old girl.
Also Monday, Stiles' former girlfriend told CNN she believes she put him in contact with the girl.
Tina Allen said she  is "disgusted" and "mortified" at her role in bringing them together.
Nye County Sheriff Tony De Meo said Friday the girl has been found and is safe. He said the child's mother was cooperating with authorities.
De Meo addressed Stiles directly: "Turn yourself in to your local law enforcement agency. Understand this: Law enforcement not only has a long arm but a long memory. You will not be forgotten by members of this agency or any other law enforcement agency."
Stiles' former girlfriend said she is stunned by the allegations.  Watch Allen describe her first impression of Stiles »
Allen said she and Stiles had been in an on-again, off-again relationship for 10 years and that he was good with her children.
"He said he'd been in the Navy and, you know, I was looking for a strong guy to represent to my sons what I thought they needed to be," Allen said.
Allen took Stiles to a crowded apartment where her son and daughter lived. Also living in the apartment were a family friend and her 3-year-old daughter, who allegedly was victimized by Stiles.
"I'm disgusted. I'm ashamed, embarrassed, mortified," Allen said. "I regret every, every step I ever took; I feel bad for the baby."
Todd Allen, Tina Allen's son, told CNN he recognized his old apartment from scenes in the video. He said his mother and Stiles spent time together there.
Todd Allen said nobody realized the child may have been abused.
"She's what you'd expect a little girl in elementary school to be like," he said.
He said he never witnessed Stiles physically assault anyone.
"But I have seen him verbally and mentally assault many people," Todd Allen told CNN.
Looking back, Tina Allen said there were some warning signs. She said Stiles hit her once but she didn't file a police report.
She said she blames herself. "How could I not know? Why couldn't I have recognized something? Why are all these people going through this torture now because of me?" Allen asked.
Allen ended her relationship with Stiles a few months ago. She said she believes it will be difficult for police to find him.
"He will hide out in mountains if that's what it takes, he will hide out in a crowd, he'll find somebody who hasn't heard anything and stay there," she said. "He has skills. He knows how to hunt, I mean hunt with a gun, a knife, a bow."
Allen said Stiles stopped by her house last week for a friendly visit before his name was linked to the videotape. She said his appearance had changed. She said his hair was longer and he had put on weight.
Stiles, a resident of Pahrump, Nevada, is a former animal trainer, authorities said. De Meo said the FBI also is seeking him in a separate matter involving state charges of sexual assault and lewdness with a minor under 14.
The man who claimed to have found the tape in the desert and held it for at least five months before handing it over to authorities turned himself in Sunday to Nye County officials.
Darren Tuck, a Nevada resident who allegedly showed the tape to others before giving it to police, faces a possible sentence of 10 years to life for exhibiting pornography and another one to six years for possession of child pornography, according to De Meo.
Tuck's attorney, Harry Kuehn, said last week on CNN's "Nancy Grace" that his client had been "wracked by indecision" as to what to do with the tape once he realized what it was. E-mail to a friend
