A Colorado judge Monday handed down sentences ranging from 18 to 32 years in prison to a trio of siblings arrested after a multistate crime spree in 2011.
Lee Grace and Ryan Dougherty and half-brother Dylan Stanley-Dougherty were captured after a shootout with police in August and had pleaded guilty to related charges. Huerfano County District Judge Claude W. Appel gave Stanley-Dougherty a 32-year prison term, while Lee Grace Dougherty was sentenced to 24 years and Ryan Dougherty to 18.
Stanley-Dougherty, 27, offered an emotional apology in court before his sentence, the maximum allowed under his plea agreement.
"I never intended to, I never tried to, I never wanted to hurt anybody," he said, struggling to speak through tears. "It is true that I acted out of desperation, and I am sorry for the choices that I made. I wish I had done things differently. I truly am sorry to anybody that was involved."
Following nine days as fugitives, the trio crashed in rural Huerfano County while trying to evade police at speeds of up to 120 mph, authorities said. Stanley-Dougherty fired an AK-47 rifle at pursuing officers during the chase, while his sister was shot in the right leg after pulling a gun on Walsenburg Police Chief James Chamberlain.
"I deserved to get shot," she later told the FBI. "I pointed the gun at the cop."
District Attorney Frank Ruybalid said she was educated enough to know better, and asked Appel to consider their entire cross-country flight from the law.
"I would characterize this as a case of missed opportunities," he said.
Ruybalid said Stanley-Dougherty was thrown from the car along with his weapon when the crash occurred.
The trio still faces charges related to allegations that they shot at a police officer in Florida and robbed a south Georgia bank before heading west. Ruybalid said surveillance video from the bank in Valdosta showed Lee Grace Dougherty firing a MAC-10 machine pistol, and shell casings from the bank matched a weapon found with the group after their capture.
"I believe the evidence is very strong, that this family didn't have any money to continue the crime spree if she hadn't participated in the bank robbery," Ruybalid said.
