(CNN)Singapore Changi Airport has been crowned the best in the world for the second year in a row at the World Airport Awards, announced Wednesday in Barcelona, Spain.
Changi, which also won the award for best airport leisure amenities, beat out second-place Incheon International Airport in South Korea and third-place Munich Airport in Germany.
The awards are based on surveys conducted by Skytrax, an international travel research and consultants firm, which polled 12.85 million passengers across 110 nationalities about 395 airports worldwide.
7 of the world's most entertaining airports
"Changi Airport offers a travel experience in itself and continues to develop its quality standards to be named the world's favourite airport again," Edward Plaisted, CEO of Skytrax, said in a news release.
"Changi Airport is a well-known leader and innovator for the airport industry and genuinely delights and surprises travellers who are lucky enough to enjoy the airport facilities. Changi Airport demonstrates how to make the airport experience an enjoyable part of the journey that is so important in today's fast-moving world."
Changi served more than 52 million passengers in 2012. No wonder it's popular: The airport has an on-site movie theater, swimming pool, gardens and trails.
A day in the life of the world's busiest airport
Five of this year's top 10 airports were based in East  Asian cities, and four were in Europe, just like last year's award winners. Just one North American airport -- Vancouver -- cracked the top 10.
The World's Best Airports 2014
1. Singapore Changi Airport
2. Incheon International Airport (South Korea)
3. Munich Airport (Germany)
4. Hong Kong International Airport
5. Amsterdam Schiphol Airport
6. Tokyo International Airport (Haneda)
7. Beijing Capital International Airport
8. Zurich Airport (Switzerland)
9. Vancouver International Airport (Canada)
10. London Heathrow Airport (England)
A full list of the winners and prize categories from the World Airport Awards can be found at www.worldairportawards.com.
Wow! Making airplanes in the world's biggest building
