December 19, 2013
In our penultimate program of 2013, we report on the U.S. delegation to next year's Winter Olympics in Russia, and we examine a former basketball star's latest trip to North Korea. We also discuss some unusual behavior in the marine world, and we see how one company plans to train space tourists. Plus, we make a sweet Career Connection with a baker.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might media coverage of Dennis Rodman's trip to North Korea be different in the U.S. (where media are free) than in North Korea (where media are controlled by the government)?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. delegation
2. diplomacy
3. space tourism
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. According to the report: What are some reasons why former pro basketball player Dennis Rodman is revisiting North Korea? In what ways is the Asian country experiencing political upheaval?
2. According to the report, how are some animals in the Pacific Ocean acting differently than usual?
3. How is a company training people for possible space travel?
Discussion Questions:
1. What criteria do you think generally determine who serves on a delegation from the United States to a global athletic event? To what extent might politics factor in? Explain.
2. What unique challenges might be part of professional baking? How might having a business selling food be different from a business selling products? Explain.
3. What are your thoughts on the space training facility seen in the program? What aspects of space travel do you think it might simulate well? In what ways might the training experience be different than actual space travel? Would you want to travel in space? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
