Can you really go home again?
"Dumb and Dumber To" is just the latest to trade on our love of nostalgia by revisiting a past hit. "Dumb & Dumber" debuted in 1994 and the combination of the Farrelly brothers as directors and stars Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels was cinema gold. The film went on to become a cult classic.
But is it possible to recapture that type of magic 20 years later?
After all, these days Daniels is more well known for his dramatic role on HBO's "The Newsroom" and neither he nor Carrey are as young as they used to be. So far critics haven't found a lot of evidence that the pair can go home again in terms of replicating what made the first film beloved (and yes we remember the 1995 animated TV show "Dumb and Dumber: The Series" and the 2003 movie prequel "Dumb and Dumberer: When Harry Met Lloyd").
"The charm of the original, to the extent that the original was an enjoyable character farce that led to better things for all participants, is long gone," writes Scott Mendelson for Forbes. "This is not the 'Dumb and Dumber' sequel we needed, but it's the one we deserved for inexplicably clamoring for a second installment in the first place."
Andrew Barker of Variety writes "Sporadically very funny, mostly very tedious, and sometimes truly vile, this 18-years-too-late sequel nonetheless exhibits a certain puerile purity of purpose, and should accrue healthy profits playing to the nostalgia of the dumb and the dumb at heart."
But good or bad, Hollywood will always return to the well be it with television or movies in the hopes that they can rally those who have held on to their fond memories for years. Here are a few examples.
1. "Veronica Mars"
Fans loved this former TV show so much that they helped fund a movie just to catch up with the characters.
The series about a teenaged private detective ended in 2007 but the "Veronica Mars" motion picture landed in theaters in 2014 after a successful Kickstarter campaign.
It didn't break any records at the box office, but the faithful didn't seem to care.
2. "Arrested Development"
Look up "cult classic" and "Arrested Development" will be right there.
The Fox TV show ended in 2006 after three seasons of low ratings despite critical acclaim. Netflix stepped up and made dreams come true in 2013 with a fourth season. Word is there are plans for a season 5.
3. "Psycho II"
It took 23 years to get a sequel to the wildly popular 1960 horror film "Psycho." Original star Anthony Perkins also appeared in the 1983 followup as the now-rehabilitated killer, Norman Bates. In 2013 A&E premiered a prequel series titled "Bates Motel."
4. "Tron: Legacy"
The original "Tron" was released in 1982, also known as the early days of CG special effects. Things had gotten much more advanced by the time "Tron: Legacy" came out in 2010. Sci-fi geeks were so ready for it and thrilled to see Jeff Bridges reprise his role as software engineer Kevin Flynn, whose son Sam (played by Garrett Hedlund) finds him in a virtual world 20 years later.
5. "Girl Meets World"
"Boy Meets World" practically owned the 1990s.
The ABC series followed the exploits of Cory Matthews and his friends and family from 1993 to 2000 and viewers couldn't get enough of the young love between Cory and his crush Topanga Lawrence (played by Ben Savage and Danielle Fishel respectively).
Many from the original cast were on board for the new series "Girl Meets World" which premiered in June 2014 and found Cory and Topanga now married and the parents of a pre-teen daughter named Riley.
6. "The Comeback"
No show has been more aptly named than this one.
The HBO series about a washed-up TV actress desperate to get back into the game never gained traction and only lasted one season in 2005 despite a devoted fan base. Over the years even more folks discovered the show within a show and there were cries to "bring back Valerie Cherish" played by "Friends" actress Lisa Kudrow.
That happened in November 2014 when the network brought it back years later for a second season.
It just goes to show that it's never too late. Now who's ready for the sequel to "Zoolander?"
