A homeless man included in a mock video produced by a friend of Justin Timberlake's for the actor-singer's wedding celebration wants Timberlake to visit him on Skid Row.
Lawyer Gloria Allred, known for representing clients with high-profile complaints, held a news conference on Skid Row in downtown Los Angeles Monday to publicize the demands of the man, identified only as Eddie.
"I just want Justin Timberlake to come and talk to me about the things he can do to help us people that's down and out and that's lost things in our lives and not back on track," said "Eddie," who appeared at the news conference with Allred.
Allred also challenged Timberlake and his friends to "take action to provide meaningful assistance to Eddie and others like him."
"This issue is not just about fans being upset or anyone being offended by a video," Allred said. "It is about people being down on their luck and in desperate need of help by those who are in a position to provide it. Mr. Timberlake, you, and your friends and others are in a position to provide that help."
Mr. and Mrs. Timberlake help bring Sandy relief
The short video -- titled "Greetings from your Hollywood friends who just couldn't make it" -- was not shown at the wedding of Timberlake an Jessica Biel, which took place in Italy in October. But Allred said it was produced for a related event.
Eddie was one of several people who live on the streets of Los Angeles who are seen wishing the celebrity couple well in their marriage.
"Jessica and Justin, I haven't seen y'all in a long time. My gift is in the mail," Eddie said in his clip. While he was paid $40 to appear on the video, Eddie said he had no idea it would make fun of him or his friends.
"We're human beings and we need to be noticed and appreciated, just like other people," he told reporters. "Not just to take a video of a person and put it in a rich wedding and everybody laugh about it, or whatever, like it was a joke on the homeless people."
Timberlake posted a letter on his website apologizing for the "silly, unsavory" video, which he said was produced by a "knucklehead" friend without his cooperation or knowledge.
"I don't live my life making fun of people (unless, of course, I'm making fun of myself on SNL)... Especially, those who are less fortunate or those in need," Timberlake wrote. "I grew up with a family and community that instilled ideals in me like hard work, honesty and empathy."
While Timberlake said he had no involvement in making it, "by association, I am holding myself accountable."
Eddie, who has lived on the streets for "six or seven years," said he was hoping for a job as a clerk, custodian, caretaker or construction worker.
"Once upon a time, I did have a job and was living good, and my mother passed and a lot of things hurt me within myself and by me not having a job, I kind of fell short of money," he said. "And you know, if you don't have any finances, you don't have nothing to pay rent or anything like that you become on the street."
Next Friday is his 58th birthday, but he'll spend it on the street, just like this Christmas, he said.
His only family members are two daughters who live in another state, he said.
Timberlake's representative did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment on Eddie's call for help.
CNN's Jack Hannah contributed to this report.
