Another gruesome video. Another beheading of a Western captive by ISIS. And another family warned that its loved one may be next.
For Alan Henning's family, the nightmare has turned into reality. Now Abdul-Rahman Kassig's family is hoping for a miracle.
Both Henning and Kassig risked their lives to help strangers besieged by the Syrian civil war.
Over the weekend, hundreds of people attended a service in Manchester, England, to remember Henning. And Sunday night, Kassig's parents issued another plea for their son.
Here are the stories of the aid workers snatched by militants bent on using them as political pawns:
Henning: A 'national hero'
Not even the calls of 200 mosques in Britain were enough to stop radical militants from decapitating Henning, a 47-year-old taxi driver from near Manchester.
"Alan Henning was our local and national hero," a joint statement from the mosques said. "We will remember him as a tireless and selfless volunteer aid worker whose only concern was to help people in need."
The mosques also slammed the terror group who took him.
"The killing of Alan Henning was a cowardly and criminal act of appalling brutality by a group who do not represent Islam at all and in fact are an insult to the Islamic faith," their statement said.
Henning joined a group of volunteers who traveled to Syria in December 2013 to deliver food, water and medical supplies to people afflicted by the country's devastating civil war.
He was abducted by masked gunmen the day after Christmas, other people in the aid convoy said.
His wife, Barbara, pleaded for her husband's release, but to no avail.
ISIS released the video of Henning's decapitation on Friday. It said the killing was a response to the UK joining the U.S.-led bombing campaign against the group in Iraq and Syria.
Some of Henning's fellow aid workers believe the British Parliament's decision to authorize bombing ISIS in Iraq may have triggered their friend's slaughter.
"By joining the U.S. airstrikes, we handed Alan, and many other Western hostages, a death sentence," aid worker Dr. Shameela Islam-Zulfiqar said.
But British Prime Minister David Cameron said the "abhorrent" killing of Henning means allies must continue trying to "do everything we can to defeat this organization."
And as it did in the beheading videos of American freelance journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff and British aid worker David Haines, ISIS threatened to decapitate another Westerner. It showed American aid worker Abdul-Rahman Kassig and said he would be next.
ISIS video similar to others, doesn't run as long
Kassig: 'I am an idealist'
