Best Buy wants to know if you'd pay $1,499 for a 42-inch, high-definition Apple TV which uses your iPad or iPhone as a remote control.
You know ... hypothetically.
The big-box gadget retailer sent a survey to some customers asking in fairly explicit detail about the long-rumored TV system -- under language that says "Apple finally reinvents what a TV can do."
The survey, first acquired by tech site The Verge, calls the system a "concept." But it goes into explicit detail describing it.
The question describes a 1080p LED flat-panel screen and access to Apple's iCloud service, iTunes, Netflix, YouTube and Flickr.
Intriguingly, it also describes a built-in iSight camera and microphone for using Skype video calling.
An Apple spokeswoman said the company has no comment about the survey and referred questions to Best Buy.
In a statement to Wired (a CNN content partner), Best Buy said the survey just asked a hypothetical question to gauge interest in possible future products.
"The customer survey was a routine offer effectiveness survey conducted by one of Best Buy's research partners," the statement said. "Any brand reference was hypothetical. The survey is no longer available."
Industry analysts almost unanimously expect Apple to enter the television market in the near future.
In "Steve Jobs," a biography of the late Apple co-founder, author Walter Isaacson writes that Jobs told him he'd finally figured out a way to make a TV practical. He said it would wirelessly synch with other Apple devices
Since 2007, the company has made a product called Apple TV, a set-top Web-streaming box that competes with rival Google TV and independent offerings like Roku and Boxee. But compared to hits like the iPhone and iPad, it has largely underperformed, leading Jobs to say in 2010 that Apple TV has "never been a huge hit."
But a full-on TV set, integrated with Apple's other platforms and products, would be another thing entirely.
The presumably mythical TV in the Best Buy survey would use Apple's mobile operating system (iOS), which is also used by its current Apple TV system. It would also be able to download apps from the app store.
"Can you imagine playing 'Angry Birds' on a big screen in your living room?" text in the survey reads.
Hypothetically, of course.
