(CNN)  -- Liverpool won the first heavyweight clash of the English Premier League season as an Aaron Ramsey own goal and a late strike from substitute Luis Suarez gave Kenny Dalglish's men a 2-0 win over Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium Saturday.
The opener after 78 minutes owed much to good fortune as Uruguay international Suarez was attempting to flick the ball back and it cannoned off the young Welsh international Ramsey and into the net.
Moments before, Arsenal had been reduced to 10 men as Emmanuel Frimpong was shown red for a second yellow card, the second dismissal of the campaign for Arsene Wenger's men with Gervinho going in the 0-0 draw at Newcastle last week.
Blog: What now for Arsenal and Fabregas?
A man short and with 12 minutes remaining, Arsenal were finally sunk as Raul  Meireles set up his fellow replacement Suarez for an easy tap-in.
In a game of few chances, Pepe Reina in the Liverpool goal was rarely tested, but had to save sharply from Frimpong in the first half and from Robin van Persie midway through the second half.
Liverpool striker Andy Carroll had a shot that glanced the woodwork, while Stewart Downing tested home keeper Wojciech Szczesny.
Defeat capped a miserable week for the Gunners, who have seen star midfielder Cesc Fabregas depart to Barcelona, while Samir Nasri, who started against Liverpool, is linked with a move to Manchester City.
But for Dalglish, it has been an excellent start to the season.
"Obviously we are delighted it is a very difficult place to come that everyone knows about," he told Sky Sports.
Blog: When will Wenger end this transfer insanity?
"I thought it was a fantastic game of football -- we are delighted to have won, we probably just about deserved it. We never lost a goal which is good for a start."
Chelsea's 2-1 home win over West Bromwich Albion was the other highlight of Saturday's action, their first win under new manager Andre Villas-Boas.
His team trailed to a shock early goal from Shane Long and WBA might have been further ahead at halftime.
But the Blues responded after the break and goals from French pair Nicolas Anelka and Florent Malouda gave them the three points.
In the other lunchtime kickoff, Newcastle continued their encouraging start to the campaign with a 1-0 win over Sunderland in a north-east derby.
Ryan Taylor's 62nd minute goal from a free kick was enough to give Alan Pardew's team local bragging rights and to rub salt into the wound home defender Phil Bardsley was sent off in the last minute for a foul on Fabricio Coloccini.
Later in the afternoon, Aston Villa beat Blackburn 3-1 at Villa Park and QPR hit back after their opening day defeat to win 1-0 at Everton. Swansea and Wigan were goalless in the first English Premier League game to be played in Wales.
Champions Manchester United host Tottenham Hotspur on Monday night.
