A volunteer at a golf tournament in 2012 accused embattled Miami Dolphins player Richie Incognito of inappropriately touching her with a golf club, according to a newly disclosed police report.
No charges were filed, according to CNN affiliate WPLG-TV, which first obtained the police report.
The station reported that the woman declined to comment, saying she had signed a confidentiality agreement. The Dolphins also declined to comment, the station said.
Attempts by CNN to reach Incognito's attorney and the NFL team late Thursday night were unsuccessful.
The team suspended Incognito on Sunday for unspecified allegations of improper conduct. ESPN, NFL.com and other media outlets have reported that representatives for teammate Jonathan Martin submitted voice mails and text messages in which Incognito used racial slurs and threatened physical violence. Martin left the team left week and is now considered "on leave."
Incognito declined to comment on those reports but predicted Tuesday he would "weather the storm."
Also Tuesday, gossip website TMZ posted a video of Incognito in a bar shouting profanities and using a racial slur to refer to a teammate who was with him. TMZ said the video was recorded this year.
The latest report from police in Aventura, Florida, concerns a golf tournament sponsored by the Dolphins' charitable foundation on May 18, 2012.
The police report quoted the 34-year-old woman, who was a volunteer at the tournament, as saying Incognito had been drinking before he approached her.
The woman said Incognito used his golf club to touch her crotch, stomach and chest and then knock sunglasses off her head, the police report said. The woman said Incognito then leaned against her buttocks as if dancing and finally emptied a water bottle in her face, the police report said.
The woman said Dolphins officials were notified, but she believed they took no action, the police report said.
The police report said she wanted an apology from Incognito.
The police report classified her allegations as simple battery. The report showed police listed the case as "cleared" the same night it was filed, although the woman was told how to proceed if she wanted prosecutors to file a criminal charge.
