(CNN Student News) -- August 20, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might it be important to know who is funding a video that promotes a cause?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. storm front
2. Korean War
3. texting while driving
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. In what year was an armistice signed between North and South Korea to suspend their armed conflict?
2. An award-winning film director recently produced a documentary warning people about what danger?
3. In the U.S. music industry, what is the category for a single or album that sells 10 million copies or more?
Discussion Questions:
1. Do you think that planned reunions between separated North and South Korean families will have an impact on their countries' relations? Why or why not?
2. Do videos about the dangers of texting while driving change people's driving behavior? What were your thoughts on what students said about this issue? In your opinion, what else could be done to discourage drivers from texting? Explain.
3. What was your impression of the music played on a cell phone in today's report? Do you think it will soon be common to play music professionally on cell phones? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
North Korea; South Korea
North America
Mississippi; Idaho
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
