The Los Angeles Galaxy beat the Houston Dynamo 1-0 in the Major League Soccer final Sunday, in what could be David Beckham's last significant game on U.S. soil.
The Galaxy entered the final match, which was on their home turf in Carson, California, as the clear favorite. The squad hasn't lost this year at The Home Depot Center, and overall have won 19 games, tied 10 and lost five.
The Dynamo, meanwhile, finished second in the Eastern Conference having won 12 games, tied 13 and lost nine.
Yet while the Houston squad had strong players like Brian Ching and Brad Davis on its roster, they couldn't match the star-power of the Galaxy. That included U.S. national team stalwart Landon Donovan, Irish forward Robbie Keane and Beckham.
The sole goal of the game came in the 72nd minute. Beckham flicked a header to Keane who passed the ball to Donovan -- who, in turn, sent it past Dynamo goalkeeper Tally Hall.
It was the Galaxy's third MLS title, and Beckham's first.
Beckham has been a global soccer icon for years, inspiring the movie, "Bend It Like Beckham" and starring for years with Manchester United, Real Madrid and the English national team. He's also been a hot item off the field, as the husband of former "Spice Girl" singer and fashionista Victoria Beckham.
In 2007, he signed on with Major League Soccer -- a surprising move to some, given that he then was still considered one of the world's best players and the U.S. league's quality was considered inferior to many others worldwide.
Beckham said then that he hoped to help build the sport's standing in the United States and the league's profile internationally.
His $32.5 million contract is set to expire at year's end, and Beckham recently told CNN that he is still weighing where, if anywhere, he will go next.
Clubs rumored to have shown interest in him include European teams Tottenham Hotspur, Paris Saint-Germain and Queens Park Rangers.
"People say I'm coming to the end of my career, which at 36 years old you usually are," he said last week. "But it's always nice to be wanted, and to be wanted by some of the biggest clubs in Europe still."
Beckham added that, at season's end, he plans to talk through his next steps with his family -- considering, among other factors, his health and "what I think I can still achieve."
Beckham hoped to have an answer possibly before Christmas.
He also expressed his desire to somehow be part of the 2012 Summer Olympics, either as a player, "an ambassador for the Olympics" or simply a fan.
"To be a proud Englishman, to get the Olympics in a part of London where I grew up, it was something that I loved being part of," Beckham said.
CNN's Paul Vercammen contributed to this report.
