Feuding among Michael Jackson's family reached a new level Monday when a "scuffle" erupted at Katherine Jackson's home in Calabasas, California, according a sheriff's spokesman.
Paris Jackson, the 14-year-old daughter of the late pop icon, posted a Twitter message about the time the incident was happening: "gotta love fam."
She also tweeted about her distress about not hearing from her grandmother for more than a week: "8 days and counting . something is really off , this isn't like her at all .. i wanna talk directly to my grandmother!!<|3"
Michael Jackson's siblings attack estate executors
Deputies were called to the mansion where Katherine Jackson has been raising Prince, 15, Paris and Blanket, 10, since their father died three years ago, Los Angeles County sheriff's spokesman Steve Whitmore said.
A battery report was taken, but no arrests were made, Whitmore said. He would not identify who was involved because "the investigation is ongoing."
Janet, Jermaine and Randy Jackson were on the scene, a source with firsthand knowledge of the incident said. The source asked not to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter.
The drama happened as Los Angeles County sheriff's detectives closed a missing persons case opened for Katherine Jackson, who was found to be with daughter Rebbie in Arizona.
"Katherine Jackson has been located and she is fine and with family," Whitmore said. "Our missing persons case is closed." Deputies talked to two family members and were satisfied, he said.
A lawyer for Katherine Jackson is not satisfied, saying the sheriff's deputies who tried to talk to her in Arizona Monday were blocked from seeing her.
Because the 82-year-old matriarch of the Jackson music dynasty was taken across state lines, Katherine Jackson attorney Sandra Ribera said earlier, she hopes the FBI will investigate the circumstances of what she called her disappearance.
Jermaine Jackson, in a statement posted on Twitter Sunday night, said his mother "is safe and well in Arizona with her daughter and our sister, Rebbie, resting up on doctor's advice."
But Michael Jackson's three children still have not heard from their grandmother eight days after she left them at home, Ribera said.
Jermaine Jackson's statement insisted the children were not "being 'blocked' from speaking with Mother."
"She is merely an 82-year-old woman following doctor's orders to rest up and de-stress, away from phones and computers," he tweeted.
His statement did not explain why Paris was rebuffed during several attempts to reach her grandmother on the phone. That led to Paris posting messages on Twitter early Sunday pleading for help in finding her.
"Yes, my grandmother is missing," Paris tweeted. "I haven't spoken with her in a week i want her home now."
It is the latest chapter in a messy dispute between several of Jackson's children and her advisers.
Whitmore confirmed that the sheriff's department is investigating allegations that Jackson was being "emotionally and financially mistreated by family members."
Katherine Jackson has custody of Michael Jackson's children and a 20% share in her son's huge estate. Her husband, Joe Jackson, and her eight surviving children were completely left out of Michael Jackson's will.
The abuse probe began when "a business associate of the Jackson family" reported the allegation to a sheriff's official in April, Whitmore said.
"Investigators contacted Katherine Jackson and she emphatically denied any and all of them," Whitmore said. When investigators met with Jackson she was "in good health and voiced no complaints," he said.
"Out an abundance of caution, we have continued to interview legal representatives of the family about the possibility of financial abuses," he said. "That investigation remains open."
Katherine Jackson's lawyer and business manager decline to immediately comment.
Family, fans mark Michael Jackson's death three years later
