A hearing on the finances of former New England Patriots star Aaron Hernandez will be held Thursday in connection with a wrongful death lawsuit filed by the family of the man he is accused of killing, according to court documents.
The lawsuit, filed Monday in a Massachusetts state court, claims Hernandez "maliciously, willfully, wantonly, recklessly or by gross negligence" caused the death of Odin Lloyd.
Hernandez, 24, has pleaded not guilty to a charge of first-degree murder in the June shooting of Lloyd, 27, a Boston area semipro football player who was dating the sister of Hernandez's girlfriend.
Prosecutors told CNN that Hernandez allegedly planned and carried out the slaying: Lloyd was shot five times with a semi-automatic .45-caliber handgun. A grand jury investigating allegations of gun trafficking against Hernandez is the same one that handed up the murder charge, a source told CNN in October.
The victim's estate is seeking unspecified "compensation for the conscious pain and suffering endured by Odin Lloyd."
Hernandez had a NFL contract worth nearly $40 million, but it was terminated when he was charged with the slaying and firearm offenses.
Lloyd's family also seeks a court order prohibiting the Patriots from paying Hernandez more than $3 million he is apparently owed from his contract.
An attorney for Hernandez did not immediately return a message left Wednesday by CNN.
The attorney representing Lloyd's family did not respond to calls for comment. Lloyd's sister declined comment.
Hernandez is named in another civil suit.
A witness that sources have described as Hernandez's "muscle man" said he was with the ex-Patriot the night of a 2012 Boston double homicide. Police have said that the homicide may be linked to Hernandez, according to a law enforcement source with knowledge of the investigation.
That witness, Alexander Bradley, has filed a civil lawsuit accusing Hernandez of shooting him in the face during an argument after they left a Florida strip club in February.
Bradley lost sight in one eye because of the shooting, according to the lawsuit.
