Former motorsport chief Max Mosley is adamant the re-instated Bahrain Grand Prix will not go ahead because Formula One's 12 teams are unlikely to ratify the decision.
The Gulf kingdom was due to host the opening race of the 2011 season in March but it was postponed because of civil unrest in the country.
The body that governs F1 -- the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) -- unanimously decided to reschedule the race for October 30, and move the inaugural Indian Grand Prix to December.
But Mosley, a former head of the FIA, told CNN any move to change the racing calendar needs the full support of all 12 teams that compete in the sport, and that there are bound to be objections.
Bahrain's F1 race rescheduled for October
Mosley told CNN: "I'd be astonished if it happened. I think the decision was the wrong one and I think it is bound to be reversed. I don't think there's any chance there will be a Bahrain Grand Prix on October 30 and I think its most unlikely there will be one this year.
Webber: F1 wrong to reinstate Bahrain
"When you're going to change something in the middle of the season, like the proposal to move the Indian race for example, that needs the unanimous agreement of all the teams. I don't think there's the slightest chance of that actually being given.
"The teams have complete power in this particular case because although the governing body can cancel an event for reason of force majeure - as happened in the case of Bahrain -- when you want to put an event on or move an event, that's a change to the conditions under which the teams entered for the season and that's like any contract -- you can only change it if both sides agree.
"All 12 teams would have to agree to change the Indian date and go back to Bahrain, so it only takes one team to say 'I don't agree' and that'll be the end of it. It would not be possible for it to happen."
FIA president Jean Todt and vice-president Carlos Garcia visited Bahrain before announcing their decision, but it drew criticism from The Bahrain Center for Human Rights and current Red Bull driver Mark Webber.
The Australian said he thought going back to Bahrain would only cause more tension. "Like it or not, F1 and sport in general isn't above having a social responsibility and conscience," he told his personal web site.
Mosley said there would be no long term damage done to Formula One if the move was swiftly scrapped. If it wasn't, protests could ensue, he suggested.
"I think if it gets reversed quickly and people understand what is going on in Bahrain and act accordingly, I don't think it will do any damage at all, it will just show a mistake was made that was quickly put right," he told CNN.
"If F1 were to persist in the idea of having a race in October I think it would do enormous damage because I think there would be protests at European and other races, some of the sponsors would come under pressure from their customers and therefore put the teams under pressure.
"I think it would be very difficult to predict how far it would go. On top of that I think there's a high likelihood, I think Mark Webber's right, you'd have some really unfortunate incident when the race took place. Happily, I think that's academic.
"It would be contrary to the rules, contrary to article 66 of the international sporting code, it would, apart from any other consideration, send a completely wrong message about what F1 is there for and what our sport is all about."
Mosley even suggested next year's race in Bahrain could be in jeopardy if problems persist.
Next year: "They must be given a chance but I don't think anybody would want to go there when people are in prison without trial, when doctors and nurses have been arrested simply for treating injured people," he said.
"All of those things are very disagreeable. We have to wait and see how things develop and not pre-judge it."
