(CNN)Rory McIlroy is unquestionably the world's best golfer after a 2014 in which he soared to the top of the world rankings and charged to two major triumphs.
The Northern Irishman's success has earned him legions of fans around the globe, so we asked our followers on social media to send us their questions for one of the world's most famous athletes.
And they didn't disappoint, quizzing McIlroy on everything from deadly animals to his beloved Manchester United...
Rory McIlroy: "No you're consciously thinking of your swing all the time. There's a certain way I like to see myself swing the club, and I do a lot of technical work on the video with my coach Michael Bannon on off weeks and make sure that we've got into the right positions for me. So constantly thinking of my swing and I'm making sure it's in the right place."
McIlroy: "I think I'm most looking forward to playing Royal Country Down in the Irish Open. There's a lot of great events that are coming up, actually. I've got the Irish Open at Country Down, the Open Championship at St. Andrews. 2015 is shaping up to be a pretty special year for golf."
Have you played much in Africa? When will he play in Africa? Rich Isaac, Facebook
McIlroy: "I've played a few times in South Africa. I've played the South African Open a couple of times. I played the Alfred Dunhill Championship once. I played Sun City for two days. I got sick and pulled out after two days. I'd like to make it down again. It's a beautiful part of the world and I really enjoyed my time down there, apart from getting sick at Sun City. But hopefully it won't be too long before I'm back down there."
Can you do better than Tiger Woods? Rory, can you do better than Tiger Woods? He was a hero in this game. Rugiatu Turay, Facebook
McIlroy: "It's going to be a very difficult thing to do. Fourteen majors, obviously, which is his benchmark. And 80 odd PGA tour wins and everything else that he's accomplished. He's had a phenomenal career. I'll keep chipping away at it tournament by tournament and see how I go, but I think if you asked anyone if anyone had half of the career that Tiger Woods has -- has had so far -- they'd be very, very happy."
Did you ever encounter a dangerous animal on the course? Jordan Du Toit, Facebook
McIlroy: "Yes, there's been a few. Where we play at the Bear's Club, there's a few alligators and snakes floating around. I've come across a couple of black mambas down there (in South Africa.) And there's always a couple of snakes. And I think there was maybe a -- is it an adder? A black otter, they're pretty dangerous as well. There are alligators in Florida and stuff too. But that's really been it."
McIlroy: "George Best. It has to be George Best from back home and one of the best players that ever lived, I think."
