Rafael Nadal lost a set for the second straight match at the French Open before recovering to beat another tall, free swinging opponent.
But the seven-time champion's 4-6, 6-3, 6-3, 6-3 win over Martin Klizan of Slovakia took a backseat to Nadal's post-match comments.
He wasn't happy with the scheduling of the second-round match and, unusually, criticized tournament organizers.
"I think everybody knows in this room that the schedule of yesterday was wrong," Nadal told reporters.
Nadal was unable to start the match against Klizan on Thursday, as originally planned, because of bad weather.
Nadal, though, was unhappy about being scheduled third on Court Suzanne Lenglen while his opponent in the third round, Italian Fabio Fognini, had an earlier start and completed his encounter Thursday. World No. 1 Novak Djokovic, in the same half as Nadal, also had a day off and Roger Federer advanced to the fourth round with a victory over Julien Benneteau.
Nadal will have to play back-to-back days in the best-of-five set format, taking on Fognini on Saturday.
"I cannot play third after men's and girls when my possible opponent plays second after girls," Nadal, who lost the first set of his opener to Daniel Brands, said. "That's not fair. And today I was playing almost three hours on court, and my opponent was watching the TV in the locker room.
"So if you told me, 'That's fair,' I say, 'That's not fair.' The only thing that I can do is be positive, smile, and try to win my match and try to be ready for tomorrow."
Nadal will take comfort in knowing that he beat Fognini, a talented right-hander and former French Open quarterfinalist, 6-1, 6-3 earlier this month at the Rome Masters.
Federer, after taking on two qualifiers in his opening two matches, swept past Benneteau 6-3, 6-4, 7-5.
Benneteau -- a winner over Federer this year and a five-set loser to the Swiss at Wimbledon last year -- was bothered by a leg injury.
"He beat me at Rotterdam this year and he was incredibly ready at Wimbledon,'' the 17-time Grand Slam winner said. ''But he wasn't in the best of form today, and you could see that he was a bit hindered by the leg problem he's had for the past couple of days.''
Federer will face another Frenchman in the round of 16, Gilles Simon, although Gael Monfils' tournament is over. The exciting Monfils, an upset winner over Tomas Berdych in the first round, blew four match points and fell to Tommy Robredo 2-6, 6-7(5), 6-2, 7-6(3), 6-2.
For former top-10 player Robredo, a Spaniard who has returned from injury, it marked his second consecutive comeback from two sets down.
Serena Williams, again, didn't need to put in the same effort as Robredo.
She dropped two games to Sorana Cirstea, lifting her total to six through three rounds.
Maria Sharapova, the defending champion, completed a rain-delayed 6-2, 6-4 win over Wimbledon junior champion Eugenie Bouchard.
