Taylor Swift gets a chance to extend her reign as the Academy of Country Music's entertainer of the year, but she's competing with four-time winner Kenny Chesney and nominees Jason Aldean, Brad Paisley and Blake Shelton.
Chesney received nine Academy of Country Music Awards nods -- the most of any artist -- when the nominations were revealed Thursday, followed by Aldean's six and Paisley's four. Swift is the most-nominated female solo artist with three. Lady Antebellum leads in group nominations with five, while the Eli Young Band has three.
The list of first-time nominees includes Grace Potter with three, Aaron Lewis with two, and Thompson Square and Love and Theft earned single nominations.
Shelton will join forces with Reba McEntire in hosting the 47th annual Academy of Country Music Awards in a live CBS telecast from Las Vegas on April 1.
Swift picked up her third consecutive nomination for entertainer of the year, which she won for the first time last year. The country and pop singer is also nominated for female vocalist for a fifth year and for video of the year for "Mean."
Chesney's domination of the country music awards includes a nomination for male vocalist of the year, his 10th; two album of the year nods for "Hemingway's Whiskey;" double nominations for single record of the year and vocal event of the year as artist and producer on "You and Tequila." That tune, recorded with Potter, is also up for song of the year.
Aldean's six award nominations include his second for entertainer of the year and male vocalist of the year. His "My Kinda Party" is up for album of the year, while "Don't You Wanna Stay," featuring Kelly Clarkson, is nominated in the single record and vocal event categories. Aldean's "Tattoos On This Town" is competing for video of the year.
Lady Antebellum's five nominations include vocal group of the year, album of the year -- both as artists and producers of "Own The Night" -- and for song and video of the year for "Just A Kiss."
Paisley got his fifth straight entertainer of the year nomination and eighth for male vocalist of the year, which he has won five times since 2006. Paisley also is nominated twice in the vocal event category for "Old Alabama" with Alabama and "Remind Me" with Carrie Underwood.
Toby Keith's homage to the ubiquitous party drink container -- "Red Solo Cup" -- is honored with three ACM nominations, including for video of the year and a double nomination as artist and producer for single record of the year.
Potter's three nominations are all shared with Chesney for their collaboration on "You And Tequila."
Eli Young Band's three nominations include single record and song of the year for "Crazy Girl" and vocal group of the year.
CNN's Denise Quan contributed to this report.
