They're three of the world's biggest superstars -- but few would have expected to see them together taking in a football match in Paris.
Beyonce and her husband Jay-Z were the stars of the show in the French capital on Tuesday night after turning out to watch Paris Saint-Germain's stunning 3-2 win over Barcelona in the Champions League.
While Lionel Messi and Neymar were busy scoring goals for Barca, in a losing cause, it was the celebrities in the stand which were capturing the attention of the photographers by the field.
Most tourists visit the Eiffel Tower or take a stroll down the Champs Elysees, but Beyonce and her husband looked quite at home in the company of Beckham.
Beckham, who retired from football following a five-month spell with PSG in 2013, watched on as his former teammates claimed an impressive victory.
David Luiz, Marco Verratti and Blaise Matuidi got the goals for the home side, which was forced to play without injured talisman Zlatan Ibrahimovic.
The Swede, one of the leading strikers, was sat in the stands with a smile on his face as Barcelona suffered a rare defeat.
Barcelona had not conceded a goal in any of its six league matches before arriving in Paris but its defensive frailties were exposed for all to see.
Nicolas Sarkozy, the former French President, was also in attendance, sharing words with Jay-Z, perhaps even mentioning his wife's music career.
Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, the former first lady of France, has released solo albums in the past and has been known to perform in public.
But any singing at the Parc-des-Princes was done by the home supporters, who roared their team home to a famous win.
Elsewhere, Bayern Munich recorded a 1-0 win over CSKA in Moscow in a game played behind closed-doors.
The Russian side was forced to play the game without fans as punishment following their constant breaches of behavior.
Thomas Muller's penalty secured Bayern's second consecutive victory in this year's competition.
Roma sits second in Group E following a 1-1 draw at Manchester City courtesy of a goal from Francesco Totti.
Totti's goal makes him the oldest player to score in the Champions League at the age of 38 years and three days.
Elsewhere, Chelsea recorded a 1-0 win at Sporting Lisbon, Athletic Bilbao suffered a surprise 2-1 defeat at BATE Borisov in Belarus and Cypriot side APOEL held Ajax to a 1-1 draw.
