Channeling his best Muhammad Ali, Usain Bolt showed his greatness Thursday on the track then made sure everyone was clear on the brilliance they had just witnessed.
"I have done something that no one else has done before," the Jamaican superstar declared after winning the 200 meters to complete a sweep of the showcase sprints -- the 100 and 200 meters -- for the second consecutive Games.
"I am the greatest," he said.
And Bolt has one more race, and the opportunity to become the first man to win a double-triple -- if Jamaica can win the 4x100 relay as it did in Beijing.
Considering his countrymen Yohan Blake and Warren Weir were second and third in the 200, they seem a strong favorite.
At the Olympic Stadium, Bolt, running in an outside lane, came off the turn well ahead going down the home stretch.
"There wasn't a doubt after I won the 100 meters," Bolt said. "I was really confident. Loads of people were talking, but they can stop talking; I am a legend."
Bolt, who at 26 is in his prime, can't say if he'll try for a third Olympics. He talked to Blake, also the runner-up at 100 meters, before the 200 final.
"I said, 'Yohan, it's not your time, it's my time. After the Olympics, it's your time.' '"
Blake agreed warning people and his competitors to watch out at next year's world championships.
As Bolt made his history, the U.S. women's football team got revenge for its loss in the 2011 World Cup final, beating Japan 2-1 to win its third consecutive Olympic gold medal and fourth overall.
Carli Lloyd scored twice for the United States, which also got several classic saves including a spectacular late-game diving effort from goalie Hope Solo to preserve the win.
"It's a team effort, but I'm proud to contribute finally," Solo said.
Lloyd notched up a goal in each half, with an early header off a cross from Alex Morgan and a long run up the right side of the field that ended with a cracking strike from just outside the penalty area.
"It opened up and I just kept going and just unleashed it," she said of the second goal, which provided the match-winner.
An Olympic record crowd of 80,203 watched the match, played at Wembley Stadium.
Canada defeated France in the closing moments of their bronze-medal game to take the third spot on the podium, with the winning goal from the boot of midfielder Diana Matheson.
Another American women's team won gold Thursday when the water polo squad defeated Spain 8-5.
"We played great defense today and that is what won us the medal," Brenda Villa said.
For Villa, who had been on silver medal winning teams in 2000 and 2008 and the bronze medalists in 2004, it was her last competitive game.
"I got my fairytale ending," she said.
The U.S. continues its successful athletics meet as Ashton Eaton won the decathlon and Christian Taylor won the triple jump. The Americans have won 24 of their Olympics-leading 90 medals at Olympic Stadium.
The crowd there was also treated to a world record in the men's 800 meters as Kenyan David Rudisha ran 1:40.91.
"To come here and get a world record is unbelievable," he said. "I had no doubt about winning. Today the weather was beautiful. I decided to go for it."
In the women's 4x100 meter relay, the United States had the fastest qualifying time with a 41.64, just .04 away from an Olympic record set by East Germany in 1980.
Female fighters firsts
History was made in the boxing ring Thursday, as Great Britain's Nicola Adams became the first woman ever to win an Olympic gold and Team USA's Claressa Shields followed with the middleweight title.
"I think I will wear (the gold medal) every day for the first year," Shields said.
Adams' triumph in the flyweight final over China's Ren Cancan was greeted by ear-splitting screams of delight by the home crowd.
"It sounds really good, it's like a dream come true," Adams said. "I've wanted this all my life and it's finally come true. I'd really like to thank all the supporters here and elsewhere. I'm so happy and overwhelmed with joy right now."
Shortly after, Ireland's Katie Taylor came out on top in the first Olympic women's lightweight final, making a spirited comeback in the last round to beat Russia's Sofya Ochigava by 10 points to 8.
Taylor fell to her knees in joy and relief as the victory was announced, giving her country its first gold medal of the Games, before doing a lap of honor around the ring draped in the Irish flag.
Photos: The youngest female boxer
Shields' 19-12 victory against Russia's Nadezda Torlopova is a remarkable achievement for the 17-year-old from Flint, Michigan -- and makes her the first American woman to take an Olympic boxing gold.
Flyweight Marlen Esparza, from Texas, took a bronze.
Women's boxing was an exhibition sport in the 1904 Olympics in St. Louis but only made its debut as a full Olympic event at the London 2012 Games. It has proved hugely popular with the crowds and seen skillful sparring in the ring, defying the critics who argued boxing was a man's game.
Read more: Sex, Games and Olympic Village life
Roller coaster day for Pistorius
There was disappointment in the Olympic Stadium earlier Thursday for those hoping to see South Africa's Oscar Pistorius, the first double amputee to compete at the Games, run in the 4 x 400-meter relay.
The baton never reached the hands of the man nicknamed the Blade Runner, for the artificial blades on which he runs, after the second South African runner, Ofentse Mogawane, fell before he could pass it over.
However, in a dramatic turn of events, the South African team was reinstated on appeal and will contest the final Friday, after officials accepted that Mogawane had fallen as a result of obstruction by a Kenyan runner.
Pistorius was delighted by the turnaround in his team's fortunes, the official Olympic website reported.
"It's been absolutely phenomenal, just stepping out there again today on the track in front of a crowd like this has been awesome. This whole experience has just been mind-blowing for me," he is quoted as saying.
And the relay final won't be the last time for the crowds to see Pistorius in action, as he's set to return in the Paralympic Games later this summer to defend his 100-meter, 200-meter and 400-meter titles.
Trinidad and Tobago won the first 4 x 400-meter relay heat, with Great Britain and Cuba in second and third. Team USA, the defending champions, and Russia also qualified for the final, as did the tiny Caribbean nation of the Bahamas.
Venezuela also made it into the relay final on appeal, meaning nine teams will contest the final for the first time.
Read more: Gender testing 'imperfect' for female athletes
Women's hoops, volleyball finals set
At North Greenwich Arena, site of the basketball tournaments, the American women earned a spot in the gold medal game, beating fierce rival Australia 86-73.
The U.S. was forced to rally after trailing at halftime by four points.
"We've played a lot of basketball in the last month and I don't think anyone's played better against us than Australia in that first half," U.S. coach Geno Auriemma said.
Tamika Catchings said the team recommitted itself during the intermission.
"At halftime we had a heart-to-heart about where we want to be," she said.
The U.S. women's volleyball team made it through to the final with a win over South Korea, where it will face Brazil.
Team GB stars at the horse park
Over at Greenwich Park on day 13 of the Games, Great Britain's Charlotte Dujardin, took gold in the individual dressage final, only two days after helping Team GB win the team dressage gold for the first time.
Dujardin, who only started riding in top level dressage competitions last year, held the Dutch rider Adelinde Cornelissen to silver. Team GB's Laura Bechtolsheimer took bronze and compatriot Carl Hester, who trains Dujardin on her horse Valegro, took fifth.
Dujardin got ready for the event Thursday without the help of her coach, Hester.
"I warmed up on my own. I'm pretty confident with the horse," she said. "I've had Carl in my left ear for the past nine or 10 days. So, if I haven't learned by now, I need shooting."
The latest successes cap a remarkable Games for Britain's equestrian competitors, who have also taken medals in show jumping and eventing.
Read more: Where is Australia?
Odds and ends
China won a gold medal for the 33rd consecutive day over the past three Olympics, one day better than the United States' previous mark set in the Games of 1996 to 2004.
Hopes were high for Team GB's Keri-Anne Payne, the 10-kilometer open water world champion and Beijing silver medalist, to repeat her success in the Serpentine lake in Hyde Park.
After a hard-fought two-hour race Payne could only manage fourth, though, with gold going to Hungary's Eva Risztov and silver to America's Hayley Anderson.
Thousands of spectators gathered in the sunshine on the banks of the lake, more usually home to swans and geese, to watch the grueling swimming marathon.
Earlier, Germany took two golds in a busy morning on the waters of Eton Dorney lake.
One went to Franziska Weber and Tina Dietze, who clinched top spot in the women's kayak double (K2), with Hungary in silver and Poland taking bronze.
The other was won by German duo Kurt Kuschela and Peter Kretschmer, who triumphed in the men's kayak double (K2) 1,000-meter canoe sprint final.
After a slow start, Australia is now climbing the medal table. Their latest victory came courtesy of Tate Smith, Dave Smith, Murray Stewart, and Jacob Clear, who took gold in the men's kayak four (K4) 1,000-meter canoe sprint.
Danuta Kozak took gold for Hungary in the women's kayak single (K1) 500-meter final.
Video: How athletes are partying in London
