(CNN Student News) -- September 19, 2014
History headlines today's program, as we dive into Scotland's past to explain how it came to be part of the United Kingdom. We also report on the foiling of an apparent terrorist plot in Australia, and we cover the debate in the U.S. over whether to arm Syria's rebels. Also featured: a look into the issue of immigration and a Character Study involving music as medicine.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. What celestial object is about 93 million miles away from Earth?
2. A volcanic eruption in what European country recently sent the smell of sulfur across the Norwegian Sea?
3. Name one of the two private companies awarded government contracts to develop NASA's space "taxis."
4. What is the world's oldest currency still in use?
5. In what European city did dozens of international officials meet on Monday to discuss the ISIS terrorist group?
6. What part of Mexico, located between the Gulf of California and the Pacific Ocean, was lashed by Hurricane Odile?
7. In what U.S. state would you find the most endangered river in America?
8. How many hours long is a circadian interval?
9. Which chamber of the U.S. Congress voted 273 to 156 to authorize training and weapons for rebels in Syria?
10. Which chamber of the U.S. Congress gives advice and consent to the president?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
