Lazio moved up to second place in Serie A on Saturday with a 1-0 win at Sampdoria.
A first-half goal from Brazilian midfielder Anderson Hernanes was enough for all three points as a clutch of teams look to keep touch with leaders Juventus.
The reigning champions, who left it late to beat Cagliari on Friday, are currently eight points clear with 44 points.
Vladimir Petkovic's side replace Inter Milan in second place after Andrea Stramaccioni's side could only manage a 1-1 draw at home to struggling Genoa.
Ciro Immobile gave the visitors the lead in the 77th minute before Argentina's Esteban Cambiasso headed home an equalizer with five minutes remaining.
The result sees Inter slip to fourth, level on 35 points with Fiorentina, but with an inferior goal difference.
Vincenzo Montella's men boosted their league goal tally with a 3-0 win away to Palermo.
Three second-half goals -- two from Stevan Jovetic and one from Gonzalo Rodriguez ensured a comfortable win over 18th place Palermo.
Read: Lone soccer fan wins army of admirers
Napoli remain fifth in the league after a 2-0 win at bottom-of-the-table Siena -- Christian Maggio scored with four minutes remaining before Edinson Cavani converted a spot kick in injury time.
Erik Lamela scored a brace as sixth-placed Roma thumped AC Milan 4-2 at the Stadio Olimpico.
Nicolas Burdisso put the home side ahead in the 13th minute before Pablo Osvaldo doubed the lead ten minutes later.
Lamela made it three on the half-hour mark before finding the net again in the 60th minute to leave Milan reeling following a winning streak of four matches.
Read: The lonely death of Diego Mendieta
Milan managed to claw two goals back late in the game -- substitute's Giampoalo Pazzini and Bojak Krkic finding the net in the 87th and 88th minute -- but it was only after Roma's Brazilian defender Marquinhos had been shown a red card for deliberate hand ball ten minutes earlier.
The win, which sees Roma consolidate 6th place ahead of Milan, is likely to heap further pressure on Rossoneri coach Massimiliano Allegri.
Parma move up to eighth after a 2-1 away to Bologna. Frederik Sorensen gave the hosts the lead in the 54th minute before Roberto Donadoni's team struck back with two quickfire goals.
Jaime Valdes equalized in the 56th minute before Nicola Sansone hit the winning goal ten minutes later.
Mid-table Atalanta and Udinese shared the points in a 1-1 draw -- Luis Muriel opening the scoring for the visitors in the 33rd minute only for German Denis to cancel out the lead with a spot kick seven minutes later.
Torino eased their relegation worries with a 2-0 win over Chievo. The win lifts Giampiero Ventura's side up to 13th with 19 points two points behind 12th placed Chievo.
