When he wasn't laughing, Joe Biden sounded like a belligerent old man.
Paul Ryan sipped from a cup and looked like a beleaguered altar boy.
Fair or not, those were just two characterizations of Thursday's vice presidential debate on Twitter, where a Greek chorus of jokesters kept up a witty commentary throughout the 90-minute throwdown. As with any live TV event in the social media age, the people of Twitter let no gaffe or verbal tic go unnoticed.
Here are 25 of our favorites:
GuyEndoreKaiser -- Tonight's debate is scheduled for ninety minutes, but Paul Ryan is already claiming he can finish in fifty something.
Ana Marie Cox -- I actually happen to have "malarkey" in the drinking game! Oh geez...
Jill Morris ‏‪-- The VP candidates get to sit because they're exhausted from standing up for our values. ‪#VPDebate
Morgan Murphy ‏‪-- Biden's teeth are so white they're voting for Romney. ‪#VPDebate
The 25 funniest tweets about the first presidential debate
Indecision ‏‪-- Watered-down sanctions are the worst. You need four just to get tipsy. ‪#vpdebate
Patton Oswalt -- Ryan is a nervous Walmart manager. Biden is an irate customer with the receipt, the warranty & he's friends w/ the store owner. #debate
Indecision ‏‪-- Joe Biden would very much like for Paul Ryan to get off his lawn. ‪#vpdebate
Laughing Joe Biden ‏‪-- Looooooool
Paul and Storm ‏‪-- You can't make Joe Biden look bad. He is your favorite uncle. He pulls quarters from behind your ears. ‪#VPDebate
Seth Masket ‏‪-- Actually, this is like if Aaron Sorkin wrote an exchange between the Skipper and Gilligan. ‪#vpdebate
Leah ‏‪-- JOE. SHUT THE HECK UP AND WAIT YOUR TURN. ‪#VPdebate
Sean Becker -- "Oh, I get it now." - Jim Lehrer
Paul Ryan Gosling ‏‪-- Hey girl, I'm not taking nervous sips of water, I'm drinking every time Biden laughs at me. ‪#vpdebate
Jose Antonio Vargas ‏‪-- Before this ‪#VPDebate, ‪@JoeBiden had a Venti macchiato and two cans of Red Bull.
James Garrett ‏‪-- I kind of feel like Joe Biden is Kanye and Paul Ryan is Taylor Swift. ‪#VPDebate
National Review ‏‪-- Wait, is Biden yelling at Martha Raddatz right now? I thought he was debating Paul Ryan...‪#VPDebate
Brent Black ‏‪-- I HAVE HAD A CHILD IN THE SHAPE OF A BEAN PLEASE INTERRUPT ME ‪#VPDebate
Jeffrey Wisenbaugh ‏‪-- Biden is yelling less. I think it's getting closer to his bed time. ‪#sleepy ‪#VPDebate
Chad Schomber ‏‪-- To think, all this just to sway 4-6% of undecided voters. And those folks are not watching the ‪#VPdebate
OK, so the headline on this story says 25 tweets. But here are some more, suggested by our users:
Bearded Stoner -- Chuck Norris sleeps with the lights on because Joe Biden can strike at any time. #VPDebate
Albert Brooks -- Biden just had a good run. I don't know if these lines I'm watching on CNN are voters or his heart rate.
Patricia Lockwood ‏-- Well of COURSE Joe Biden was laughing. He was literally debating a box of Count Chocula
Did you see other debate tweets that made you laugh? Let us know in the comments or by tweeting us @cnntech and we'll add the best ones to the list.
CNN's Doug Gross and John D. Sutter contributed to this story.
