The West Indies team bus has been attacked by Bangladesh fans, following the side's one-sided victory over the co-hosts at the Cricket World Cup.
The West Indies secured a nine-wicket victory in 12.2 overs in the Group B game in Mirpur on Friday.
Bangladesh scored just 58 runs -- their lowest ever total in a one-day match --which led a group of angry fans to throw stones at the West Indies bus as it traveled back to the team hotel.
Should minor nations play at the Cricket World Cup?
"Bangladesh stoning our bus," Windies opener Chris Gayle -- who hit his 8000th one-day run during the match -- wrote on social networking site Twitter during the incident."Glass break. Can't believe...what next bullets!"
The former national captain continued: "This is ridiculous. World Cup with so many security and this happens. Big Joke. Trust me I'm not keen here."
The Deputy Commissioner of Police in the capital Dhaka claimed that disappointed fans had in fact thought the bus belonged to the Bangladesh team.
"They thought it was the Bangladeshi team bush and they hurled stones at it," Imtiaz Ahmed told news agency AFP. "The window panes were shattered, but no one was injured."
The West Indies' win over Bangladesh marked their second consecutive victory in the World Cup following their win over The Netherlands, and the team now lie second in the table behind South Africa.
Sulieman Benn claimed four wickets, while Kemar Roach and Darren Sammy took three each for the West Indies -- encouraging performances for the Caribbean side ahead of their upcoming fixtures against England and Ireland.
For Bangladesh the loss means they now find themselves placed sixth out the seven teams in their group, and must beat England in their next tie on March 11 to have any chance of qualifying for the quarterfinal stage.
Meanwhile, in the Group A clash at the Sardar Patel Stadium in Ahmadabad, India earlier on Friday, New Zealand defeated Zimbabwe by 10 wickets to claim their second win of the tournament
After bowling out their opponents for just 162 runs, the Kiwis cantered recorded up two half-centuries courtesy of Martin Guptill and Brendon McCullum with 99 balls to spare.
New Zealand are fourth in their group behind Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Australia, and Zimbabwe lie in fifth place.
