David Beckham's proposed loan move to Tottenham has been called off, but the soccer superstar will still train with the English club to maintain his fitness during the U.S. off-season.
Tottenham had hoped the former England captain would join up in a temporary three-month move to boost the club's Premier League and Champions League hopes.
The 35-year-old LA Galaxy player could have made his debut against former team Manchester United, where he made his name, next Sunday.
However, the London side's website said the midfielder's Major League Soccer club would not let Beckham stay longer than February 10.
Who will be the bargains of the January sales?
"We'd love to have him here for longer but we respect his commitments to LA Galaxy. They wanted him back in early February so that made it difficult to do a playing deal on the basis of three weeks," manager Harry Redknapp said on Sunday.
"David is a fantastic professional -- he will be a great influence around the place and I am sure we will all benefit from his winning mentality. I think everyone will enjoy having him here."
However, Redknapp said on Sunday night that he still hoped the deal could be resurrected.
"Hopefully it could still happen. The situation is ongoing," he told reporters following the 3-0 FA Cup win over third division Charlton.
Beckham is still hoping to win his England place back, having been discarded by national coach Fabio Capello after suffering an Achilles injury in his second loan stint at Italian club AC Milan last year which ruled him out of the World Cup in South Africa.
"It's important that I maintain a high level of fitness during the MLS off-season. I'm thankful to Tottenham and Harry Redknapp for giving me the opportunity to train with the team over the next month," he told the Tottenham website.
"I'm grateful to the LA Galaxy for allowing to me to train with Spurs. I look forward to getting to work as soon as possible."
Redknapp had told reporters earlier on Sunday that the deal was unlikely due to insurance problems, with the Galaxy worried Beckham might suffer another long-term injury.
The player trained with Tottenham's London rivals Arsenal at the start of 2008, which helped him win his 100th international cap when Capello recalled him at the start of the Italian's tenure.
Meanwhile, Beckham and his wife Victoria announced on Sunday that they are expecting a fourth child later this year.
The couple already have sons Brooklyn, 11, Romeo, 8, and Cruz, 5.
