Former world number one Tiger Woods insists he will not rush his recovery from a knee injury, casting doubt over the 14-time major champion's participation in next month's British Open.
Woods has not played since he withdrew from the Players Championship in May, and is a doubt for golf's oldest major -- which is due to start at Royal St. George's in England on July 14.
The American has been hampered by injuries since he returned to the sport following problems in his personal life and a self-imposed exile from the sport in early 2010.
"I'm setting no timetable, which is very different for me," the 35-year-old told the PGA Tour's official web site.
"I've played hurt before. I've played through injuries, I've played in pain. Unfortunately I pushed it too hard and hurt myself, and this time around I'm not going to do that again."
Now ranked 17th, he has not claimed one of golf's four major championships since the 2008 U.S. Open, when he played on despite breaking his leg, and last won a tournament at the 2009 Australian Masters.
"All the years of playing when my knee wasn't very good and playing through it, unfortunately I broke my leg and still played," said Woods.
Despite his loss of form and slide down the world rankings, Woods is still confident in his ability to beat Jack Nicklaus' record of 18 major wins.
"He won when he was 46, right? I've still got some time. I'm 35, I'm not 65. I've still got some years ahead of me. Golf is unlike any other sport," Woods said.
He cited Tom Watson's performance at the 2009 British Open, where the veteran American lost out in a playoff for the Claret Jug to compatriot Stewart Cink, as an example of how age is not necessarily a barrier to success.
"I mean, Watson was, what, 59 years old when he almost won? We can play for a very long time."
Woods has won the British Open three times -- at Scotland's St. Andrews in 2000 and 2005, then at Hoylake in 2006.
The tournament is returning to Sandwich in south-east England for the first time since 2003, when American Ben Curtis was a shock victor in his debut appearance at a major event.
