A woman who says a female teacher from middle school sexually abused her for years decided to confront the teacher -- and post video of the exchange on YouTube.
Within hours, the educator resigned from her job at another school in California. Police launched an investigation. And the former student, who once felt powerless, now says she feels vindicated knowing the ex-teacher is no longer working with children.
The video
The former student, who calls herself "Jamie," said the abuse started when she was 12 years old.
"I am 28 years old and have been waiting years to get up enough courage to report a teacher for sexually abusing me for years," Jamie's caption on her YouTube video states.
"When I finally got up enough courage to report her, I found out that the statute of limitations was up and she will never have to pay for the things that she did to me."
So she decided to expose the teacher on the Internet.
"I decided I'm going to call her to get some answers from her," Jamie said to a camera in her home.
After the woman identified as the teacher picked up the phone, Jamie asked, "So what happens when a student comes in and says that they're having (a) sexual relationship with a teacher?"
"I would involve law enforcement," the woman said.
"So how is that any different from what you did" years ago, Jamie said.
"It's not," the woman replied.
"Do you realize that you brainwashed me, and you manipulated me, and that what you did was wrong?" Jamie asked.
"Yes. And I regret it," the woman responded.
"You should be so ashamed and so disgusted with yourself," Jamie said, raising her voice.
"I am. I am," the woman said.
30 day sentence for teacher who raped his 14-year-old student
Shortly after Jamie posted the video on YouTube, she sent the link to her former teacher. The educator resigned within hours, said Jamie's attorney, David Ring.
The teacher has not responded to CNN's phone and e-mail requests for comment.
Police have launched an investigation into the case, but the statute of limitations may be an issue, Riverside police Lt. Guy Toussaint said. It all depends on what the investigation reveals and what crimes may have occurred.
At the Alhambra Unified School District, where Jamie said the teacher most recently worked, administrators received an electronic message Friday with a YouTube link incriminating the educator, said Superintendent Laura Tellez-Gagliano.
Administrators called police immediately.
The woman, identified by the school district as an Alhambra High School administrator, was interviewed the same day, and she "tendered her resignation" at the end of the interview, Tellez-Gagliano said in a statement.
No students from the Alhambra district have been identified as victims so far, and the "Alhambra Police department will be handing this matter over to the jurisdiction of the appropriate police department," the district said.
"This alleged action took place in another school district, without any report prior to her employment to the Alhambra Unified School District," the superintendent said.
The Alhambra Police Department said it notified Riverside police because the reported abuse allegedly took place in Riverside.
"At this time in the investigation, there have been no identified crimes involving the suspect that have occurred in Alhambra," APD said in a statement.
Former sixth-grade teacher admits sex with boy
Why now?
Now that she's a mother, Jamie said she wanted to make sure the teacher couldn't work with children again.
"The reason why I wanted to do this was to expose her for what she really was and to protect other kids, because she shouldn't be around anyone's kids," Jamie told reporters Monday. "It took a lot for me to come forward, but I kept thinking about my own kids, and how I wouldn't want anything to happen to them."
Jamie said the abuse took place 'off and on" between the ages of 12 and 18. She said she didn't come forward as a teenager because the teacher had brainwashed her.
Ex-L.A. teacher sentenced to 25 years in lewdness case
"She told me that my family didn't love me. She told me that nobody cared about me and that she was the only one that loved me and the only one that was there for me," Jamie said. "She made me believe that she was my only friend, and that I could trust her."
Jamie said she didn't want a physical relationship -- but that the teacher threatened her multiple times.
"She said that she would kill herself if I ever left. And I believed that," Jamie said.
Now, more than a decade after middle school, Jamie said she feels greater control in her life.
"In the beginning, I thought there was nothing that I could do. But after the outcome, obviously, there is something I can do."
Ex-PTA president accused of making child porn at elementary school
