The son of the iconic founder of modern Kenya and two other powerful figures in the East African nation -- all accused of crimes against humanity -- made their first appearances before the International Criminal Court at The Hague on Friday.
Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, Cabinet Secretary Francis Muthaura and former national police Chief Hussein Ali are suspected of a range of crimes after the country's disputed 2007 election. Kenyatta is the son of Jomo Kenyatta, Kenya's first president.
It comes a day after three others -- Former Agriculture Minister William Ruto, opposition leader Henry Kosgey and radio journalist Joshua Arap Sang -- had their first appearances before the court.
All six are accused of organizing post-election violence that left more than 1,000 people dead and displaced hundreds of thousands more.
Their presence at The Hague has reverberated across Kenya and is a "big statement" for the democratic society and the rule of law, said Martin Oloo, a Kenyan political scientist and a high court advocate.
"It is an indication that yes, responsibility and public action is possible where it is deemed that crimes have happened; where it is deemed that some people need to be taken to account for their actions," he said.
"I think that is a good statement in a political scene such as Kenya's, and perhaps Africa generally, because we have known impunity to thrive, we have known leadership to be unaccountable, and this is a statement that says, 'wait, you better be ready to account for your actions.' "
The two groups of three come from opposite sides in the country's disputed presidential election.
The chaos and violence after the 2007 election escalated into ethnic violence pitting supporters of incumbent President Mwai Kibaki against those of challenger Raila Odinga, who was later named prime minister in a power-sharing agreement.
Muthaura, Kenyatta and Ali are accused of committing or contributing to the killing, rape and other acts of violence against supporters of Odinga's opposition Orange Democratic Movement. The judge set a September 21 date to hear arguments as to whether they should go to trial.
Ruto, Sang and Kosgey are accused of being perpetrators in the murder, deportation and commission of other offenses against supporters of Kenya's Party of National Unity. The judge set a September 1 date for their arguments.
Ekaterina Trendafilova, the presiding judge, said if more crimes are committed, the court could replace summonses with arrest warrants.
"It came to the knowledge of the chamber through following some articles in the Kenyan newspapers that there are movements toward retriggering the violence in Kenya, by way of delivering dangerous speeches," the judge said.
Kenya has challenged the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, saying its own authorities will investigate and prosecute the cases on Kenyan soil.
Oloo said the case is "most important" because it draws a line for Kenya.
"It says that 'wait a minute, you cannot go about your business and commit all crimes, and do whatever you want to do all in the name of acquiring power, and get away with it,' " he said.
The Netherlands-based court calls itself, on its website, "an independent international organization ... established to help end impunity for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes of concern to the international community."
CNN's Joe Sterling contributed to this report.
