Third seed Kim Clijsters booked a place in her sixth Australian Open quarterfinal with a straight-sets success over Russia's Ekaterina Makarova Monday.
Clijsters, a finalist at Melbourne Park in 2004, needed a tie-break to take the opening set before she clinched a 7-6 (7-3) 6-2 triumph in one hour and 28 minutes.
The start of the match was delayed after Portuguese umpire Mariana Alves instructed the unseeded Makarova to change her outfit because a sponsor's logo on her shirt was too large.
"I really felt that I really stayed focused throughout all my matches," the 27-year-old Clijsters told the Australian Open's website.
"In a couple I really didn't feel my best out there, but I'm happy with the way that I was playing, but you have to always be a little bit better."
Clijsters, bidding for back-to-back grand slams after retaining her U.S. Open title, will come up against 12th seed Agnieszka Radwanska in the next round.
The Pole had to save two match points in her victory against China's Shuai Peng.
Radwanska, who has never advanced beyond the quarterfinals of a grand slam, was 4-5 down in the final set before she clinched a 7-5 3-6 7-5 win.
"After the match I was really sad," world number 54 Peng told the WTA Tour's official website.
"I think I got a little bit tight then also maybe a little bit unlucky."
Li Na is now China's lone hope for a first grand slam singles title.
Second seed Vera Zvonareva is into the last eight in Melbourne after a 6-4 6-1 win over the unseeded Czech Iveta Benesova.
Zvonareva, a semifinalist in Australia in 2009, fell behind 4-2 in the opening set before she rallied to emerge victorious and remain on course for her maiden grand slam triumph.
"I thought I was a little bit slow," the Russian said. "A little bit passive at the start, but then I found the right momentum and kept it until the end of the match. I'm happy I won, this year has started well."
The 26-year-old Zvonareva was a beaten finalist at Wimbledon and the U.S. Open in 2010 and has won more matches than any other female player at the last three grand slams.
"This is what you work very, very hard over many, many years for. The majors are where you want to play your best tennis. I really enjoy the challenge."
Zvonareva will face another Czech in the next round after Petra Kvitova edged out Italy's Flavia Pennetta 3-6 6-3 6-3.
Pennetta was seeded 22nd, three places above her opponent, but Kvitova managed to cause a second-straight upset after her dismissal of fifth seed Samantha Stosur in the previous round.
"I was very nervous in the first set," Kvitova said. "But I knew I had to keep fighting. In the end it was very close and very tough.
"When I played Stosur, I wasn't nervous; I just wanted to enjoy it. But today I was nervous. It was very different."
