Waters were receding Sunday as rescue crews conducted searches in the aftermath of flash flooding in eastern Kentucky that killed at least two people, a top county official said.
Pike County Judge-Executive Wayne Rutherford confirmed the two fatalities Sunday, and estimated that 200 homes in the area were damaged or destroyed.
Earlier in the day, another Pike County official, Charles Maynard, told CNN that there were three fatalities -- two males and one female. The names and details of the incidents were not immediately released, pending notification of family members.
Rutherford said the county will send nine assessment teams Monday to gauge damage so a report could be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for assistance.
Several major roads and bridges in in the area were damaged, he said.
Crews in Pike County worked throughout the night in boats to rescue people from homes after flash flooding in the area, officials said.
"Raccoon Creek in Pike County is probably the hardest hit," Emergency Management Director Doug Tackett said. "It's pretty much all devastation in that area and I think most of the mobile homes aren't there anymore, and some homes were completely washed away."
Crews started door-to-door searches and welfare checks in the Appalachian county to look for anyone that may be injured or needs to be evacuated, and to make sure families are accounted for, Tackett said.
There was no specific number of missing people, Maynard said, but searches in the Raccoon Creek area continued.
About 5,000 people were affected, and there were a number of high water rescues and several evacuations, Tackett said.
"I know there were some people taken from cars in swift water, and a few folks were taken from roofs of their homes or from windows to be removed from their homes," Tackett said.
As the water began to recede, the county faced another problem: One of the major water intake plants in the county was damaged and unusable.
"It looks like about 4,000 customers will be without water for about a week, so we're setting up distribution centers for folk to make sure they have drinking water," Tackett said.
CNN's Rick Vincent and John Branch contributed to this report.
