Sergio Aguero earned Manchester City a long-awaited title in the final seconds of last season, and his manager hopes that Sunday's stunning effort against Liverpool means the 2012-13 Premier League crown is still a possibility.
Second-placed City came from behind to snatch a 2-2 draw, but still ended the weekend nine points behind rivals Manchester United.
Aguero netted his ninth league goal this season with a superb piece of skill, beating Pepe Reina to a throughball and then chipping a delightful shot over the goalkeeper from out wide on the right.
"Two years ago Chelsea were nine points behind and when they went to play at Old Trafford two games from the end they were only two points behind," City manager Roberto Mancini told reporters.
"Two games and the championship is reopened. I don't think this is finished but probably now we have to win all the games but if not then 11 or 12 games.
"Last year we recovered eight points in six games so I don't know why it can't happen this year. We have 15 games and United have to play in FA Cup and the Champions League so the season is long -- three months -- and we are confident."
Having let Mario Balotelli move to AC Milan, Mancini started with Aguero and Edin Dzeko up front, and it was the Bosnian who broke the deadlock in the 23rd minute with his 11th in the league.
Dzeko was also involved in Liverpool's equalizer, as new signing Daniel Sturridge scored his fourth goal in six games despite an apparent foul by teammate Daniel Agger on the City striker.
"The referee said to play on -- he said not to kick the ball out," Sturridge revealed.
"It is not our job to kick the ball out. If the referee says to kick it out we will do that, and if he says play on then we'll play on. We played on and we scored."
Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard put his side head with a stunning volley in the 73rd minute, but Aguero -- whose injury-time goal against Queens Park Rangers in May ended City's 44-year wait for a league title -- embarrassed Reina soon after to leave the visitors in seventh place.
"Aguero's finish for the second was unbelievable but from our perspective we are bitterly disappointed he was in that situation," said Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers.
"It was a mistake, everyone is clear on that, but I can't fault the players."
Tottenham closed to within a point of third-placed Chelsea with a 1-0 victory at 10-man West Bromwich Albion on Sunday thanks to Gareth Bale's 11th league goal this season.
However, it was marred by an ankle injury to striker Jermain Defoe, who will miss England's prestige midweek friendly against Brazil.
Ninth-placed West Brom had Goran Popov sent off for spitting just after halftime.
"The game changed with the sending-off. I'm absolutely disgusted with Goran's behavior," said his manager Steve Clarke.
