Borussia Dortmund marched 13 points clear in the German Bundesliga on Saturday with a 2-0 win at home to St. Pauli.
Coach Jurgen Klopp's team later saw defending champions Bayern Munich move up to second place on goal difference above Bayer Leverkusen, who host lowly Stuttgart on Sunday.
Paraguay striker Lucas Barrios scored his 10th goal this season to put Dortmund ahead six minutes before halftime, while an own-goal from Ralph Gunesch four minutes after the break left St. Pauli just five points above the relegation zone.
Barrios netted for the first time this year after doing well to control Nuri Sahin's cross, and his ball across goal forced Gunesch to turn the ball into his own net with Robert Lewandowski waiting behind him to score.
It was a welcome return to winning ways for Dortmund, who had drawn three of the team's first five games of 2011.
Bayern Munich warmed up for Wednesday's Champions League final rematch against Inter Milan with a morale-boosting 3-1 win over Mainz, who stayed in fifth place.
Bastian Schweinsteiger scored the first header of his Bundesliga career nine minutes into the first half and Thomas Muller made it 2-0 five minutes into the second, with Dutch winger Arjen Robben involved in setting up both goals.
With 13 minutes left, Muller helped Germany striker Mario Gomez to score his 27th goal in all competitions this season for Louis van Gaal's team, who travel to Italy seeking revenge for May's defeat in Madrid.
Tunisian striker Sami Allagui headed his second goal in successive games in the 83rd minute, but it was too late for Mainz -- who won in Munich in September.
Fourth-placed Hanover moved four points clear of Mainz with a 3-1 win over struggling Kaiserslautern, with a goal in each half from Jan Schlaudraff and another just before the interval by Mohammed Abdellaoue.
The defeat left visiting Kaiserslautern third from bottom on goal difference behind 2009 champions Wolfsburg, who lost 2-1 at sixth-placed Freiburg.
Wolfsburg led when Turkey striker Tuncay Sanli helped set up fellow new signing Patrick Helmes, but substitute Stefan Reisinger leveled just before halftime and Papiss Demba Cisse's 69th-minute winner was his 16th goal this season.
Hamburg claimed seventh place above Nuremberg -- 3-0 winners over Eintracht Frankfurt on Friday -- following a crushing 4-0 victory at home to Werder Bremen.
Croatian striker Mladen Petric gave Hamburg the lead three minutes before halftime, then two bad second-half mistakes by Per Mertesacker gave Peru striker Paolo Guerrero a double on the counter-attack before Anis Ben-Hatira sealed victory near the end.
The defeat left Bremen just a point above Wolfsburg and Kaiserslautern.
Cologne came from behind to draw 1-1 at ninth-placed Hoffenheim, moving three points clear of the drop zone as Youssef Mohamad's 69th-minute equalizer canceled out an own-goal by teammate Milivoje Novakovic soon after the interval.
