A video showing seven Estonians pleading for help in gaining their release -- a month after they were abducted while bicycling in Lebanon -- makes it clear their kidnappers "want to keep contact," Estonia's foreign minister said Wednesday.
Meanwhile, a Lebanese internal security spokesman told CNN on Wednesday that seven of 11 people for whom they have warrants in the kidnappings have been arrested. However, authorities say, they are unable to determine the Estonians' whereabouts because the people who abducted them operate in cells, meaning members of one group have no information about -- or direct contact with -- members of another.
The men in the video appear to be in good health, but there was no way to determine when it was shot. It was the first contact from the men or their abductors since a web posting from a previously unknown group claiming it was responsible for the abduction.
In the video, which was sent as a YouTube link in an e-mail to the Estonian foreign ministry, one of the abductees reads in English from a statement calling on Lebanon's caretaker prime minister, Saad Hariri, and the leaders of Saudi Arabia, Jordan and France to do anything in their power to get them back home. After that, each of the other men makes a short plea for help.
Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet was in Abu Dhabi Wednesday for a meeting of the foreign ministers of the European Union and Gulf Co-Operation Council, during which he secured pledges of cooperation from the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia in finding the seven. He said Jordan "and many colleagues from European Union and NATO countries" also had agreed to help.
Paet told CNN that the men were abducted by "local criminals" in the Bekaa Valley on March 23 as they bicycled into northeastern Lebanon from Syria. They then were handed over to an unknown group.
In early April a statement was posted on a Lebanese news portal by a previously unknown group calling itself the Renaissance and Reform Movement, saying they had carried out the kidnappings and would issue demands, but none has since been made. The video released Tuesday also included no demands.
CNN Correspondent Arwa Damon described the border region where the men were abducted, as "very porous," and that it is "very difficult for Lebanese authorities to navigate, as well."
CNN's Arwa Damon, Nada Husseini and Kathryn Tancos contributed to this report.
