An Australian man and his daughter have created a furor after going on television to admit an incestuous relationship which has produced two children.
John Deaves and his daughter Jenny pictured in the 60 Minutes interview.
John Deaves, 61, appeared on the 60 Minutes show with daughter Jenny, 39, and their child -- nine-month-old Celeste, Melbourne's The Age newspaper reported.
Last month Judge Steven Millsteed banned the couple from having sex with each other, but released them on a three-year, $460 good behavior bond. Court transcripts also revealed their first child died in 2001 from a congenital heart disorder.
The couple told 60 Minutes that they fell in love in 2000 when they "discovered each other later in life." Deaves had left the family home when Jenny was a baby, and did not see her again for 30 years. What do you think of the couple's relationship?
However, the Age reported Deaves' former wife, Dorothy, disputed their claim that they were virtual strangers when they fell in love.
"They were in contact all the time," she said. "His youngest daughter [from his second marriage] didn't even know they were together and she is really traumatized -- she is hurting terrible."
Deaves' first wife and Jennifer's mother, Joan, said children deserved a better chance in life than one that originated from incest.  Watch video report on incest couple. »
"I just think that the whole relationship is dreadful," she told News Ltd.
"These incestual [sic] relationships produce children and the children have problems and it's not fair to kids."
Professor Freda Briggs, of the University of South Australia, told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation that a good behavior bond would not stop the pair from having more children.
"My controversial suggestion was that in these sorts of circumstances judges should be able to persuade them one way or another," she said.
"For the mother for example to have her tubes tied or the father-cum-grandfather to be sterilized." E-mail to a friend
