Wednesday's hearing about last September's attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya has put the State Department and diplomatic security back in the political spotlight. By the numbers, here's a look at the U.S. diplomatic presence across the globe.
Doomed Libya ambassador: 'We're under attack'
John King: Legitimate oversight or partisan politics?
307 - U.S. embassies, consulates and diplomatic missions around the world.
More than 190 - Number of countries in the world.
15 - Chief of mission vacancies in U.S. embassies, as of February 5, 2013.
3 - Embassies in which visa services have been suspended: Tripoli, Libya; Minsk, Belarus; and Damascus, Syria.
7 - Countries where the United States does not have a diplomatic presence even though the United States has diplomatic relationships: Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Guinea-Bissau. U.S. embassies or consulates in other countries are responsible for diplomatic relations with these countries, according to the State Department.
3 - Countries with which the United States does not have a diplomatic relationship, so there are no American embassies or consulates there: Bhutan, Iran and North Korea.
1 - "Virtual" U.S. embassy on the Internet - out of Tehran, Iran.
More than 11,000 - Employees in the U.S. Foreign Service stationed in other countries, as of 2008.
More than 37,000 - U.S. Foreign Service National employees ("who are citizens of the country in which an embassy or other post is located," according to the State Department) serving in their home countries.
4 - Americans killed during the attack in Benghazi, Libya, on September 11, 2012: U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens, IT expert Sean Smith and former U.S. Navy SEALs Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods.
Boehner calls for White House to release Benghazi emails
After hearing, Republicans say there's more to the story
10 - Number of days in between the Benghazi attack and when Secretary of State Hillary Clinton first called it an act of terrorism.
What the Obama administration has said about the Libya attack
Republican spotlight shifts from Obama to Clinton
224 - Number of people, including 12 Americans, who were killed in a bombing on August 7, 1998, at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, that also injured 4,000. Another bombing at the embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, on the same day killed 11 and injured 85.
12 - Number of people who were killed in a suicide bombing on June 14, 2002, at the U.S. Consulate in Karachi, Pakistan. Fifty-one were injured.
Victim's mother: Hearing didn't give answers
Opinion: Hearing's aim was to undermine Clinton
