One week after Republicans scored massive electoral victories in the House and Senate, the 58 wide-eyed and triumphant House lawmakers-to-be descended upon Washington -- a city many of them campaigned against -- for a crash course on how to be a member of Congress.
The dizzying pace of the seven-day congressional freshman orientation has trappings of the first day of college: There's apartment hunting, a picture day, field trips, an "office fair," assemblies, briefings on how to stay out of trouble, an ID card check-in, welcome meetings with leadership and hugs and kisses from loved ones.
Some of the members of the new class entered the Capitol for the first time Wednesday night, a structure obscured by rows of grey scaffolding as part of a massive years-long refurbishment project. For the next several days, many will spend time lost in the building's underground labyrinth of poorly-marked hallways.
The men and women of the 114th Congress come from diverse backgrounds: There's one car salesman, a dentist, a forester, a 9-1-1 dispatcher, a former CIA officer, two Southern Baptist preachers, an economics professor, an electrician, an arms dealer and, as is tradition, a small army of attorneys.
Amid the pageantry and high-minded lectures about the value of "public service," the incoming lawmakers will spend much of their time dealing with the mundane, such as securing access to new government computers and telephones. They'll be tasked with ensuring their new offices have copiers and fax machines.
According to a copy of the orientation schedule acquired by CNN, members are encouraged to visit the "New Member Office Fair" where they can get help setting up their new website or choose a carpet-and-wall color scheme for their new office digs. In the basement of the Rayburn House Office Building, Capitol Hill techies will be on hand to demonstrate "the newest computer and telecommunications equipment."
Meanwhile, the House portrait studio will provide official congressional photos—the cost will be billed to their "Members' Representational Allowance"—and delivered on compact disk.
On Wednesday night, the members-elect began a dizzying schedule of briefings, starting with a "sneak peek into Leadership, Steering and Being a Freshman" for the Republican group on Wednesday night and a bi-partisan reception. After that, both parties retreated to their proper corners: Democrats joined Nancy Pelosi for a dinner in Statuary Hall while Republicans attended a forum down the hall.
On Thursday morning, the newbies departed their security-heavy hotel on a brisk walk to the Capitol for a four-hour briefing on exciting subjects such as how to properly use their office budget to buy pens.
The Friday schedule calls for an hour-long bipartisan breakfast panel entitled "If I Knew Then What I Know Now" hosted by longstanding members with wisdom to share, followed by tours of the Capitol's hallowed halls.
Freshman orientation comes with Saturday school, where the members-elect will get a whirlwind tour of the "legislative process," a subject many seem to struggle to retain. The next week begins with a class photo on the Capitol steps followed by the most important meeting yet: Ethics training.
After they're scared straight at the ethics briefing, it will be time for an inspirational field trip—for Republicans only. The new GOP class will hop on a bus to the National Archives with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, a California Republican, for a "private document viewing" of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution.
The orientation marathon concludes next Wednesday with a lottery to determine who gets the first crack at office space. A race for the high-rise penthouse this is not: The best real estate on Capitol Hill is actually on the lower floors, which shortens travel between to the House floor for votes. Those unlucky souls assigned to the far corners of Congress' little empire are reminded that yes, It Gets Better.
"John Kennedy was on the fifth floor," Michigan Republican Rep. Candice Miller, the chairwoman of the House Administration Committee reminded the freshman on their first day. "We all start there."
In the meantime, the members-elect will also have a chance to subscribe to their favorite political magazines and newspapers, free of charge. Fun fact: Since 1983, all congressional offices automatically receive free deliveries of pornography, courtesy of a monthly shipment of Larry Flynt's Hustler magazine.
Once it's all over, this gang of bewildered and bleary-eyed future lawmakers of America will say goodbye to their new friends and return home for the holidays. They'll be back in January, when the real fun starts.
