Lionel Messi missed a penalty as Brazil defeated Argentina 2-0 in the Superclasico de Las Americas friendly fixture in Beijing Saturday.
Goals either side of half-time from Diego Tardelli were enough to ensure Brazil trumped its great South American rival for the first time since 2012.
A mix up in the Argentina defense enabled Atletico Miniero midfielder Tardelli to carefully place a volley beyond Argentina keeper Sergio Romero after 28 minutes.
Messi then had the chance to draw la Albiceleste level after Angel Di Maria was brought down in the box just before half time. But the Barcelona star's tame penalty was easily saved by Jefferson in the Brazil goal.
An unmarked Tardelli put Brazil out of sight when he took advantage of yet more poor Argentina defending to nod in an Oscar corner after 64 minutes.
While not a competitive fixture, the result marks Brazil's third consecutive win since its disastrous exit at the hands of Germany at the 2014 World Cup.
A Selecao has made wholesale changes to its football operation since that 7-1 semi-final humiliation in July.
Former midfield star and manager at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, Dunga, has replaced Luiz Felipe Scolari in the dugout while players such as Kaka and Robinho have been recalled to the squad after missing out on the World Cup.
Suarez makes international return
Luis Suarez returned to international football for the first time since biting Italy's Giorgio Chiellini at the World Cup in Brazil earlier this year and set up Uruguay's only goal in a 1-1 friendly draw against Saudi Arabia Friday.
The Barcelona striker was initially banned from all football activity for four months and nine international matches.
But an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport saw the initial punishment altered to nine competitive internationals and allowed the 27-year-old to train with his teammates and take part in friendlies.
Suarez's 47th minute strike rebounded off the post before being turned in to his own goal by Saudi defender Hassan Muath Fallatah.
Substitute Naif Hazazi equalized for Saudi Arabia in the closing minutes to deny Uruguay victory.
