Two-time world footballer of the year Ronaldinho has joined Flamengo on a four-year contract, the Brazilian club confirmed on Tuesday.
The 30-year-old, whose star has fallen since being named the planet's best player in 2004 and 2005 while with Spanish club Barcelona, has left Italian league leaders AC Milan with six months left to run on his contract. The fee was not disclosed.
The Brazilian forward fell down the pecking order at Milan following the arrival of compatriot Robinho, Sweden striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic and, most recently, Italian bad-boy Antonio Cassano.
He has stated that he wants to win back his international place back for when his nation hosts the 2014 World Cup, and initially had been expected to rejoin his hometown club Gremio, with Flamengo and Palmeiras also interested.
English Premier League club Blackburn also made an ambitious offer to sign the former Paris Saint Germain player.
"We are pleased to announce the hiring of Ronaldinho for the next four years," Flamengo president Patricia Amorim told the club's official website. "I thank the board for the discretion and wisdom throughout the negotiations.
"This project started from the first day I got the presidency. I thank the legal department to (head coach Wanderley) Luxemburgo and especially the fans of Flamengo."
Milan, who like Flamengo play in red and black colors, confirmed Ronaldinho's departure after 18 months at the San Siro with a farewell statement on the club's website.
Milan: Ronaldinho returning to Brazil
"The club thanks the player for his excellent performances and wishes him success and satisfaction for the next chapter of his career," it said.
"Ronaldinho is about to begin a new adventure, continuing to put on the red and black colors, but from now on it'll be a shirt with horizontal stripes."
The main Brazilian league kicks off again in May, with 2009 champions Flamengo seeking to bounce back after a disappointing 14th-place finish last year.
AC Milan have allowed United States defender Oguchi Onyewu to join Dutch champions Twente until the end of this season.
The 28-year-old, who has not played for Milan this campaign, reunites with his former Standard Liege coach Michel Preud'homme.
English superstar David Beckham began training with Tottenham on Tuesday, with the English Premier League club still hopeful of resurrecting his loan deal despite apparently calling it off on Sunday.
The 35-year-old midfielder's American club LA Galaxy want him back by February 10 ahead of the new MLS season.
"There is nothing at the moment, but we will see what happens, who knows?" Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp told Sky Sports.
Tottenham's English rivals unveiled Bosnia striker Edin Dzeko on Tuesday, having completed his reported $42 million move from German club Wolfsburg last Friday.
"I decided to come here because I saw something else in Manchester City," he told reporters, before aiming a dig at the club's local rivals United. "It is a big club with big ambition and I am an ambitious player.
"I know this is a big project. Manchester City are a very good team. They have a very good coach. And I have heard a lot about the fans. I have also heard that most of the people from Manchester are Manchester City fans."
German league leaders Borussia Dortmund have retained goalkeeper Roman Weidenfeller after the 30-year-old extended his contract until mid-2014.
