Stomach for the fight, matched by a stomach for waffles and hash browns.
Bubba Watson, the American golfer who has just become a multiple golf winner, showed he had the appetite for both as he secured his second Masters win, adding another green jacket to the one he won in 2012.
As he walked down the 18th fairway, Watson was able to soak up the atmosphere and prepare for a celebratory trip to the Waffle House.
A far cry from his nerve-shredding playoff win over Louis Oosthuizen at Augusta National two years ago.
"I wanted to start celebrating but my caddie was in my ear saying, 'Not yet, not yet. Wait until we putt out and then celebrate all you want,'" the 35-year-old told CNN before a winner's dinner of waffles and hash browns.
"It's a different feeling when you know you can four-putt the last hole and still win, it only took me two. It's a lot better feeling, the stomach feels a lot better this way than it did in the playoff!"
Watson finished eight-under par for the tournament after a three-under final round of 69 saw him stretch three strokes clear of compatriot Jordan Spieth and Sweden's Jonas Blixt, the Masters debutantes who tied for second place.
"I see myself as a guy who loves the game of golf and tries to get better at it," beamed the new world No. 4.
The bedrock of Watson's success is his thumping drive, his ability to hammer the ball over 350 yards perfectly suited to the Augusta course.
When Watson won the first major of his 11-year pro career in 2012, it coincided with him and his wife adopting a baby boy, Caleb.
His son was one of the first people to embrace Watson on the 18th green.
"That was a big deal," said Watson. "For us, being adopted parents, our story, trying to explain to him how much we love him and we care for him.
"If he loves golf it's going to be great for him because he'll see that he was at Augusta. For him growing up, it will be great for our family to be able to explain all of this to him."
If Watson's latest triumph is proof that he is no one-hit wonder, he showed no sign of getting carried away by his success.
"I see myself as a blessed man who gets to play on the PGA Tour, gets to play at Augusta National in the Masters.
"I see myself as a golfer, just an average guy who loves to play the game of golf and try to get better at it."
Interactive: Explore Augusta National
