ROME, Italy -- Cristiano Ronaldo and Wayne Rooney scored a goal in each half as Manchester United won 2-0 in Roma's Olympic Stadium to virtually assure the Premier League leaders a place in the Champions League semifinals.
Cristiano Ronaldo rises above the Roma defense to power home a superb header.
United proved they can still dominate the Italian side, following last season's 8-3 aggregate triumph at the same stage of the competition, with a stylish display.
The visitors enjoyed a lot of the ball in the first period as Roma -- missing talismanic striker Francesco Totti -- sat back, seemingly intent on not giving anything away.
On 12 minutes, United opened up the Roma defense but after Park Ji-Sung took the ball down on his chest he was crowded out.
Christian Panucci headed over the bar from a David Pizarro corner and Mirko Vucinic shot over as he was falling backwards, after Rio Ferdinand had slipped, as Roma briefly threatened.
United then suffered a blow as defender Nemanja Vidic was stretchered off with a leg injury, to be replaced by John O'Shea.
Chances were few and far between but on 39 minutes United produced a move of majestic quality to take the lead.
United switched the ball around the edge of the Roma box before Paul Scholes eventually crossed for Ronaldo to come steaming in to out-jump Marco Cassetti and thump home a header.
Just three minutes later Roma had their best chance of the half after a mistake from Ferdinand, but Vucinic dragged his shot from the left just beyond the far post.
Roma came out after the break with more purpose and Vucinic played in Max Tonetto, but he lashed his shot wide of the near post, failing even to force Edwin van der Sar into making a save.
From a quick throw Panucci had great chance but skied his volley from five meters. Substitute Ludovic Giuly then got behind the United defense but Van der Sar cut out his cross.
And the big Dutch keeper then made a stunning one-handed save on 62 minutes from a Vucinic header to keep the scores level.
Four minutes later, United scored a crucial second as Park headed a deep cross from Wes Brown back across goal and Rooney mopped up the loose ball after goalkeeper Doni and Panucci impeded each other.
Moments later Ronaldo had a shot deflected onto the outside of the post as United threatened to run riot.
Rooney had two glorious chances to heap more misery on Roma late on but had one shot blocked and sent the other wide.
Ronaldo then almost scored with a stunning late volley from substitute Carlos Tevez's cross but the ball flew over the bar.
With Barcelona taking a 1-0 lead over Schalke in the other semifinal, it looks increasingly likely that United will face the Catalan giants for a place in the Moscow final mext month.
Ronaldo played down his goal, simply saying his 36th of the season was "a good header" and preferred to comment on the team's overall performance.
"That was a very good performance in what was a top game," he said. "We created a few chances,scored twice and deserved the victory.
"The defense were terrific and they played their part. It was a good job overall but we must remember that the Champions League is a different style to the Premier League and this match is not over yet," added the Portuguese winger. E-mail to a friend
