(The Frisky) -- Yesterday independent film's glitterati bundled up in their sweaters and ear muffs for the start of the Sundance Film Festival. And since we all know that today's Sundance movies are tomorrow's breakout hits and the movies we'll all be betting on come next year's award season, here are eight movies on the lineup that have me salivating. Here's hoping they'll be in theaters soon.
"Project Nim": Back in the 1970s, scientists conducted an experiment an a young chimp named Nim. If they raised him like a human, would he learn to communicate using sign language? In this doc, brought to you by the guy who made the amazing "Man on Wire," you'll find out how it went down -- and say "awwww" a bunch.
"Meek's Cutoff": We adore Michelle Williams and this movie sets her on the Oregon trail in 1845. It'll be a quiet movie, but we predict that with Michelle in the lead, bonnets will become the new cool girl thing to wear.
"Higher Ground": Vera Farmiga isn't just one of the most beautiful women in Hollywood, in my humble opinion -- she's also the smartest. This flick is her directorial debut, about a woman who spends 20 years in a fundamentalist commune and finally decides to leave.
"The Future": We love Miranda July, so will forgive the fact that the plot of her new movie -- a 30-something couple slowly falls apart -- sounds an awful lot like "Blue Valentine," only with brown, curly hair rather than blondes. We also hear that it's narrated by a cat?
"My Idiot Brother": We're still so glad that Paul Rudd's beard was grown for a movie and not just because. In this comedy, Paul stars as the slacker brother of three uber-ambituous sisters, played by Elizabeth Banks, Zooey Deschanel, and Emily Mortimer.
"The Greatest Movie Ever Sold": Morgan Spurlock, the man who ate Big Macs for science in "Super Size Me," takes on the world of product placement in this new doc. The twist? The movie is funded by the products you see in it.
"Like Crazy": Long-distance relationships are rough. Like, really hard. This movie, which already has some great buzz going, tells the story of a young couple that meets in college and then has to split when one of them has to return to the UK.
"Red State": Kevin Smith's publicity stunt for his new religious horror film is ... that he won't be doing any publicity for it. Oh, and he'll be auctioning off the rights. Put in a bid on Sunday.
TM & © 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
