Luxembourg's Andy Schleck has been forced to pull out of this year's Tour de France due to injuries he suffered in a warm-up race, he confirmed Wednesday.
It is a bitter blow for the 27-year-old, who was recently crowned the 2010 champion of cycling's most famous race following the disqualification of Alberto Contador of Spain for doping offenses.
RadioShack's Schleck was among the favorites for the 98th edition, which will start from Liege in Belgium on June 30, but a fractured pelvis has put paid to his hopes.
He sustained the injury when he crashed during the 53km time trial stage of the Criterium du Dauphine last Thursday, caught by a ferocious gust of wind.
"It is the biggest disappointment of my career. I would rather have finished last on the Tour than not be able to participate at all," Schleck told a press conference in Luxembourg.
"I will need to be back to 100 percent before I can start riding again. I hope to be at the Olympics," he added.
It completes a miserable 2012 for Schleck, who has been forced to abandon preparatory stage races such as Paris-Nice, the Tour of Catalunya and the Dauphine through a mixture of injury and illness.
But he had hoped to attend a final training camp in the Pyrenees mountains until hospital scans revealed the full extent of his injuries.
His brother Franck, who finished third in last year's Tour de France, will now spearhead the RadioShack effort at this year's race.
Team Sky's Bradley Wiggins, who has won the Paris Nice and Criterium du Dauphine this season, will start the three-week race as favorite.
He will be bidding to become the first British rider to win the Tour while Australia's Cadel Evans will be defending his title.
Contador, given a retrospective two-year ban which ends after this year's Tour de France, is set to make his return at the Tour of Spain where Andy Schleck hopes to compete.
In other cycling news Wednesday, David Millar has been named in the Great Britain squad for the road race at the London Olympics.
Millar served a two-year ban from 2004-2006 for a doping offense and under a then British Olympic Association bye-law was banned for life from Olympic competition.
But the Court of Arbitration for Sport overturned that ruling in April, allowing Millar to be selected.
Millar has been named in a long-list of eight riders which will be whittled down to five before the Games.
