Rory McIlroy's topsy-turvy form continued at the Scottish Open as the former World No. 1 prepares for the British Open next week.
McIlroy hit a three-under-par 68 Saturday, a big improvement on Friday's seven-over-par 78, but not quite as good as Thursday's course record 64.
"It's important for me going now into Sunday's last round thinking to myself that I have shot 64 and 68 on this golf course, which are two really good scores," McIlroy told reporters.
"Friday was just one of those days where nothing really went right. I couldn't get any momentum.
"So it would be nice to shoot another good one tomorrow and head to Hoylake with a bit of confidence," added McIlroy, referring to the venue for the Open.
"I feel good with my game and I say enough positives in there to give me confidence going into the Open."
Briton's Justin Rose and Marc Warren share the clubhouse lead on 10-under-par, a shot clear of Sweden's Kristoffer Broberg.
While the likes of McIlroy and Phil Mickelson were fine tuning their games at the Royal Aberdeen course, Tiger Woods was busy practicing at Royal Liverpool in Hoylake as he prepares for his first major of the season following back surgery in March.
After his practice round on Saturday, the 38-year-old Woods said his slow-paced return to action is paying off.
"The little baby steps worked," Woods said. "We were very diligent about what I was doing. Going into it we pushed it pretty hard to get my abs and glutes strong so when I did come back I was able to rebound fast. I can do whatever I want.
"I've got my speed back, which is nice, and I'm starting to hit the ball out there again. I'm only going to get stronger. As the weeks go on, I'm getting strong and faster."
Park takes lead
Meanwhile at the Women's British Open South Korea's Park Inbee has a one-shot lead at Royal Birkdale after compatriot Ahn Sun Ju's title challenge was hit by a two stroke penalty.
Park hit a four-under-par 68 putting her a shot ahead of Ahn -- penalized for a bunker rule infringement -- and Norway's Suzann Pettersen as well as China's Feng Shanshan.
Briton Charley Hull hit the day's best round -- a six-under-par 66 -- to put her within three shots of Park.
