English Premier League club Liverpool have rejected Chelsea's bid for Fernando Torres and insisted the Spain striker is not for sale.
The Merseyside club confirmed on their website that a bid had been received -- reported in British newspaper the Daily Telegraph to be around $63 million -- but that it was dismissed out of hand.
The 26-year-old striker, who was part of Spain's World Cup winning squad in South Africa, has scored nine goals this season, including two when the Reds beat reigning Premier League champions Chelsea back in November.
He has found the net three times since club legend Kenny Dalglish took over the managerial reins from Roy Hodgson, and the Scot is said to be insistent that his prize asset is not allowed to leave.
Liverpool agree fee with Ajax for Luis Suarez
A statement on the club's official website read: "Liverpool Football Club have insisted Fernando Torres is not for sale despite the emergence of a bid from Chelsea.
"When presented with the story by the media on Thursday night, a LFC spokesman dismissed any notion that the Spain international was for sale.
"Chelsea have made a bid for Fernando which has been turned down," the spokesman said. "The player is not for sale."
Chelsea have also failed in their bid to sign Brazilian defender David Luiz from Portuguese club Benfica.
A statement on the Benfica website read: "Negotiations between Benfica and Chelsea over the possible transfer of David Luiz reached a conclusion today without the parties having reached an agreement.
"Contrary to reports in recent days, David Luiz never tried to force his way out of the club and is a model professional."
The news comes just days after Spanish club Atletico Madrid reported they had turned down Chelsea's $82 million bid for Argentina striker Sergio Aguero and 24-year-old defender Diego Godin, from Uruguay.
At a press conference on Friday, Chelsea's Italian manager Carlo Ancelotti refused to talk about transfers.
He told reporters: "I always speak just about my players and Torres is not my player. I have to respect Liverpool. It is the same with David Luiz.
"I know very well what my club is doing now but I don't want to speak about it. The club is trying to do everything to improve the squad."
