(CNN Student News) -- September 25, 2013
What did President Obama discuss during his speech to the U.N. General Assembly? Would all Americans feel the impact of a possible government shutdown? Why did some college athletes participate in an organized protest during games last weekend? CNN Student News explores the answers in Wednesday's program.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Under what circumstances might someone get in trouble for talking to the media? What factors might determine how a member of the media should respond?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. international diplomacy
2. government shutdown
3. NCAA
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What are some examples of what would and would not be affected by a U.S. government shutdown?
2. The terrorist group that claimed responsibility for an attack in Kenya is based in what neighboring country?
3. What does "APU," which recently appeared on some college athletes' clothing, stand for?
Discussion Questions:
1. How do you think a world leader decides what topics to address in a speech to the United Nations General Assembly? What global issues do you feel are most important at this point in time? Why?
2. Do you think that a potential government shutdown would affect you, your family or your community? If so, how? If not, why not?
3. What was your opinion of the way in which some college players recently protested against current NCAA rules? What was your opinion of the NCAA's response? What might be some arguments for and against the changes that some student-athletes are seeking? What is your opinion?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
New York City
Africa
Nairobi, Kenya
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
