World number one golfer Tiger Woods has become a dad for the second time after wife Elin gave birth to a boy, Charlie Axel, on Sunday.
Elin hands daughter Sam to Tiger after his victory at last year's U.S. Open.
The couple already have a daughter Sam Alexis, who was born in June 2007, and proud dad Tiger announced news of the latest family addition on his official Web site on Monday.
"Elin and I are thrilled to announce the birth of our son, Charlie Axel Woods," said Woods who has been sidelined since knee surgery following his 14th major triumph at the U.S. Open last June.
"Both Charlie and Elin are doing great and we want to thank everyone for their sincere best wishes and kind thoughts.
"Sam is very excited to be a big sister and we feel truly blessed to have such a wonderful family. I also want to thank our doctors, nurses and the hospital staff for their personal and professional care.
"We look forward to introducing Charlie to you at the appropriate time, and again thanks from all of us for your kindness and support."
The arrival of Charlie Axel comes as Woods prepares to return to the Tour with his earliest realistic comeback in three weeks at the Accenture World Match Play in Tucson where he would be the defending champion.
However, reports suggest he may wait until the Tour comes to Florida, where he lives, next month.
"I have no restrictions -- it's just a matter of getting my golf endurance up. I don't have my golf stamina back yet," he said on his Web site.
"I am excited about returning to competition. Early on I didn't miss golf because I enjoyed staying home with Elin and Sam and I knew I wasn't physically able to play.
"The truth is, I would have embarrassed myself. Now I'm getting my feel and practice back. It's just a matter of playing more on the course.
"I'm working hard to get myself back into tournament shape and will return as soon as I'm ready."
Woods position at the top of the world rankings -- he was 11 points clear at the time of surgery -- is currently under threat from Spanish star Sergio Garcia who has closed the gap to less than three points.
