Tiger Woods produced some of his best golf to give himself a massive lead heading into final round of the BMW Championship as broke the Cog Hill course record.
Woods carded a course-record 62 in the third round of the BMW Championship at Cog Hill, Illinois.
The world number one had been tied at the top of the leaderboard with fellow- American Mark Wilson after the second round, but pulled clear of the field after he carded a course-record third round 62.
Woods had a 16-under total of 197, seven shots ahead of American Brandt Snedeker, who carded a 66, and Australian Marc Leishman, who posted a 68.
Ireland's Padraig Harrington hit a 69 for 205 and is next in line with American Matt Kuchar, who shot a round of 66.
The Illinois course has proved a popular hunting ground for Woods who is a four-time winner of the event and his impressive nine-under round included a superb eagle at the ninth.
Woods' round broke the previous record of 62 at the course, while he also equaled the tournament record which had been set by Jim Furyk at Bellerive in September 2008, and he admitted something just clicks when he plays the Cog Hill course.
"I played here even as an amateur in the old Western Open - I've always felt comfortable playing this golf course - I've always liked it," Woods told the PGA Tour Web site.
"Even though the golf course has changed this year for us, the routing is still the same, and I've always felt comfortable playing this golf course for some reason, and even though, for instance, they changed Torrey Pines South, I still feel comfortable on the property. And this is very similar to that.
"The round just kind of built upon itself. I bogeyed one right out of the gate and birdied three to get back. It just kind of built it over itself. I made a nice save there at five after hitting a really good drive, landed in the fairway and kind of ran into an impossible spot.
"Birdieing six and then good save at seven, it kind of just built. And then going birdie-eagle to finish off the front nine, you're always can make up shot from eight to 11, and I did today.
"The only hole I didn't take care of was 10. I wanted to hit wedge in there so bad, but coming out of the first cut, I wanted to take over the green out of play, and I came up a little bit short."
Woods added: "I did drive well today. I've driven it good all week. Actually the last few weeks I've felt like I've driven the ball much better.
"You know, when I'm able to get it down there, obviously with my length, I can get in there with some shorter clubs. This golf course has allowed me to kind of get down there a little bit.
"When we were playing at Liberty National, it was kind of hard to get the ball down there. It just didn't fit. Some of the tees were up and some of the angles just didn't quite fit. But this golf course, it fits."
The $7.5 million tournament is the third event in the US PGA Tour's FedEx Cup playoff series and a victory for Woods would put him back at the top of the standings after he relinquished the place to Steve Stricker last week.
