After weeks of relative calm, clashes erupted between supporters of ousted President Mohamed Morsy and Egyptian security forces and local residents in several areas in Cairo, state media outlets reported.
Additonally, pro-Morsy and anti-Morsy protesters clashed in other Egyptian cities.
Three people died and 23 were hurt in Zeitoun, in western Cairo, and one person was killed and 17 injured in Manial in central Cairo, according to state media.
The violence came during a pro-Morsy march in Cairo. Since Morsy's ouster and detention in July, his supporters have taken to the streets most Fridays. His supporters were unable to reach Tahrir Square and the presidential palace, according to state-run Al-Ahram.
Morsy's son: 'Dad, you are the legitimate leader'
Compared with violence in August that claimed hundreds of lives, the latest clashes appeared almost minor.
On Friday, an anti-Morsy politician was stabbed in Cairo. It wasn't clear whether the attack was tied to the protests.
State media reported that Khaled Dawoud sustained stab wounds to his chest and hand. Dawoud resigned from the government in August in protest of the bloody crackdown on Muslim Brotherhood supporters.
The unrest came amid reports on state media concerning the fate of 170 imprisoned members of the Muslim Brotherhood. Nile TV reported that this group, including a former governor, will be held for 15 more days for further investigation.
It was not clear how long this group had been held or on what charges. Since July, arrests and violence have been commonplace.
In September, an Egyptian court banned all activities of the Muslim Brotherhood and froze its finances, drawing complaints from the international community. At the United Nations last week, Egypt's interim foreign minister sought to quell these concerns.
Nabil Fahmy said Egypt will hold elections in the spring. He also argued that the political process is open to all "as long as they are committed to the renunciation of violence and terrorism and acts of incitement to them."
CNN's Mohammed Tawfeeq contributed to this report.
