(CNN Student News) -- September 30, 2013
This Monday, CNN Student News reports on a new development in Washington's "shutdown showdown," and we examine the science and the doubt concerning humans' potential impact on climate change. We also step inside a top-secret forensics lab to see how a shred of evidence can help track down a terrorist, and we introduce a CNN Hero who's helped others walk in his shoes.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What could be the potential benefits and drawbacks of using statistics in a news report?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Security Council resolution
2. climate change
3. fingerprint analysis
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. When is the deadline for Congress and President Obama to work out a deal to avoid a federal government shutdown?
2. What formula converts degrees Celsius to degrees Fahrenheit? If the current temperature is 20 degrees Celsius, what is the temperature in Fahrenheit?
3. What are some of the technologies used by the bomb lab seen in the video? What kinds of information are the analysts trying to gather?
Discussion Questions:
1. In your view, will Congress and the president avoid a federal government shutdown? Explain. Do you think your community could be affected if the government shutdown happens? Why or why not?
2. What does the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change say about the cause of climate change? What evidence runs counter to the Panel's claim? Do you think that humans are largely responsible for climate change? Why or why not?
3. What do you think might be the impact of a new pair of shoes on young people whose families can't afford them? What other new back-to-school items might have a similar impact? What might be some rewards and challenges of supplying these kinds of items to children who need them?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
