(CNN Student News) -- August 30, 2013
As CNN Student News wraps up the week, we examine the U.S. and U.K. governments' debates concerning possible action against Syria. We also report on a fast food workers' strike and a settlement between the NFL and some former players. Plus, we delve into the Farmers' Almanac forecast for a frigid winter, and we find out how a helmet can also be a necklace.
Teachers, please note that CNN Student News will not air on Monday, September 2 in observance of Labor Day. The daily program will return on Tuesday.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What do you think is the most effective medium for getting the word out about the dangers of texting and driving?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What U.S. national park, which is home to Half Dome, Mount Lyell and El Capitan, was threatened by a massive wildfire?
2. What award was presented to U.S. Army Staff Sgt. Ty Carter this week for his actions in Afghanistan?
3. Who is the current U.S. Secretary of State?
4. What major U.S. city's water and power supplies were threatened by the "Rim Fire"?
5. What international organization conducted an investigation to determine whether chemical weapons have been used in Syria?
6. Who is the only surviving speaker of the 1963 March on Washington?
7. What is the atomic number of the recently studied element ununpentium?
8. This week marked the anniversary of what Gulf Coast hurricane's landfall in 2005?
9. What is the current federal minimum wage in the U.S.?
10. What professional sports league announced a settlement with former players regarding concussions?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
Europe
Sweden
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
