A 19-year-old woman charged with killing a Pennsylvania man she met through Craigslist has given a second jailhouse interview and provided specific details about other killings she claims to have committed.
Miranda Barbour told the Daily Item newspaper of Sunbury, Pennsylvania, that she killed men in Big Lake, Alaska; Mexico Beach, Florida; and Raleigh, North Carolina.
In her first jailhouse interview in mid-February, she told the Daily Item reporter she had killed at least 22 men over six years across the country but didn't provide any specific locations.
Sunbury Police Chief Chief Steve Mazzeo told CNN he passed along the information to other jurisdictions.
"I'm not saying I do or don't believe it," Mazzeo said Sunday.
CNN is seeking a response from law enforcement authorities in those three cities.
Sunbury police have charged Miranda Barbour and her husband, Elytte Barbour, 22, in one death, the November 2013 stabbing and strangling of Troy LaFerrara, 42, in their car. They connected with him through a Craigslist companionship ad, police said.
Investigators tracked the couple through phone numbers in LaFerrara's phone.
Police said the couple just wanted to kill someone together for the thrill. They had been married for only three weeks at the time of the slaying and had moved from North Carolina to Pennsylvania after tying the knot.
After Barbour's first interview, authorities said they had not corroborated any of her claims, including statements that she was involved in Satanism.
"They are looking for full bodies," Barbour told the Daily Item in the second interview. "They won't find any. But they will find body parts" of runaways and individuals she described as bad people in Big Lake and Mexico Beach. She told the paper she dumped a body off Interstate 95 in Raleigh but gave no other details.
Her lawyer, Edward Greco, told CNN on Sunday he had no comment.
In the recent interview, Barbour told the Daily Item that two other men responded to her ad for companionship but never showed up to meet her.
"I tried it a few times, but it never worked out," Miranda Barbour told the Daily Item, referring to the couple's plan to kill someone together. "I knew we were going to do this since the day we met, and we tried, but the others just didn't show up."
Jailed husband of self-professed serial killer to CNN: 'I still love her'
Desperate for answers, some cling to Barbour killing claims
CNN's Elizabeth Landers contributed to this report.
