Oprah Winfrey has regained the top spot on Forbes magazine's annual most powerful celebrities list.
The TV personality has been a runner-up for the past two years, but on Wednesday it was revealed that Oprah has regained her crown.
It is the fifth time the 59-year-old star has topped the prestigious list of 100 celebrities, beating out stiff competition from the likes of chart superstars Lady Gaga, Beyoncé and Madonna.
Jennifer Lopez - who was No. 1 last year - dropped to 12th place in this year's rankings.
Oprah made an estimated $77 million between June 2012 and June 2013, down from last year's $165 million. However, despite not being the highest earner on Forbes magazine's list, "her money, mixed with strong fame scores in metrics like press mentions and social networking power, pushed her to the top," said Forbes writer Dorothy Pomerantz.
"She still wields an enormous amount of power, which is really what we look for in our fame matrix. She is taking this cable network and turning it around just through the sheer force of her will, her connections and her ability," Pomerantz continued.
Lady Gaga ranked second on the list, despite having to cut her tour short because of a hip injury.
The eccentric star's social media success and press influence pushed her up the list, aside from her $80 million earnings.
Esteemed Hollywood director Steven Spielberg came in third, while Beyoncé and Madonna claimed the fourth and fifth spots, respectively.
Taylor Swift came in sixth place, Bon Jovi was named in seventh position, while Roger Federer and Justin Bieber came in eighth and ninth places.
Ellen DeGeneres was also named in the top ten, coming in just behind Bieber.
The Celebrity 100 is based on income over a 12-month period and fame. This element is defined by media influence and social media power, including Twitter and Instagram.
Oprah is one of three celebrities who have been featured on the list every year since 1999. Howard Stern and Steven Spielberg also hold this honor.
See the original story at CoverMG.com.
