Steroid test results and notes and calendars from his then-trainer are among the evidence federal prosecutors have amassed in their perjury case against baseball home-run king Barry Bonds, according to documents unsealed Wednesday.
Barry Bonds, shown at his most recent court appearance, is accused of lying to a grand jury.
The 223-page stack of documents unsealed by a federal judge represents much of the government's case against Bonds, who is accused of obstructing justice and lying to a grand jury investigating the use of steroids in professional sports. Prosecutors say the test results show Bonds was using performance-enhancing substances -- including a then-undetectable designer drug -- at a time he denied knowingly using any.
Bonds' attorneys are seeking to keep much of that evidence out of court. The 44-year-old former San Francisco Giants slugger holds Major League Baseball's single-season and all-time home-run titles, but his achievements have been shadowed by allegations he used performance-enhancing drugs.
Bonds pleaded not guilty to the perjury and obstruction of justice charges and has been free on $500,000 bond. A hearing in the case is scheduled for Thursday.
The charges stem from his 2003 appearance before a federal grand jury probing the distribution of steroids by the San Francisco-area Bay Area Laboratory Cooperative, or BALCO. Bonds told the grand jury that his former personal trainer, Greg Anderson, gave him a cream that he said was flaxseed oil to use on his arm in 2003.
Anderson spent three months in prison after admitting distributing steroids and was later jailed for refusing to cooperate with prosecutors. The case against Bonds will include calendars kept by Anderson that prosecutors say were used to keep Bonds and other athletes on a doping regimen -- an assertion expected to be bolstered by the testimony of other athletes, they said.
Evidence will include a recording of a phone conversation with an associate in which Anderson "describes injecting the defendant, having the ability to obtain and utilize inside information about MLB's random drug testing to the defendant's benefit and the undetectable nature of what Anderson had been doing," according to documents.
Bonds won seven National League MVP titles during his 22-year career, 15 years of which was spent with the Giants. The team released him after the 2007 season, just weeks after he broke Hank Aaron's career home-run record.
