Thousands of mourners attended the funeral Monday of the newlywed Irish teacher strangled in Mauritius a week ago.
Requiem Mass was held Monday at the same Catholic church in County Tyrone, Northern Ireland, where 27-year-old Michaela Harte-McAreavey was married less than three weeks ago.
She was buried in her wedding dress in the graveyard next to the church, St Malachy's, Ballymacilroy.
It was one of the biggest funerals in Northern Ireland for several years, with political and community representatives from all sides attending.
Irish President Mary McAleese and Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams were among the mourners.
Harte-McAreavey's bereaved husband, Gaelic footballer John McAreavey, and her father, leading Gaelic football coach Mickey Harte, supported each other as they walked behind the coffin and helped carry it to the church.
The mass was led by McAreavey's uncle, Bishop John McAreavey, who married the couple on December 30.
"An evil act ended Michaela's young life last Monday, it robbed John of his beautiful wife, it deprived the Harte family of their precious daughter and sister, it deprived the McAreavey family of the daughter-in-law they looked forward to having. It shattered hopes and dreams for the future," he said.
He said the couple enjoyed a "special love" and "lived for each other" and that "nothing in John's young life could have prepared him for the ordeal of this past week."
Thousands of people had attended Harte-McAreavey's wake at the Harte home over the weekend.
In the Northern Ireland Assembly Monday, Northern Ireland First Minister Peter Robinson said memories of the murdered honeymooner had united people in grief.
"Any life taken away by murder is a horrific event, all the more so when it is of a young person," he said. "The loss is even more harrowing and devastating because the victim in this case was a beautiful young woman who was on her honeymoon.
"This is one of the rare tragedies that has captured public attention and united the community in grief."
Three suspects in her death are all employees of the luxury hotel where the newlywed was found strangled, according to the Mauritius Police Force.
Room attendant Avinash Treebhoowoon, 29, and Sandip Moneea, 41, a floor supervisor, have been charged with murder. Room attendant Raj Theekoy, 33, faces a conspiracy charge.
Police said one of the men has confessed and participated in the reconstruction.
Authorities believe the men were inside the teacher's hotel room when she returned alone.
"We presume they were inside and burgling the room when the lady returned and were surprised and attacked her," Mauritius police Superintendent Yoosoof Soopun, who is leading the investigation, said last week.
Authorities said the killer used an electronic key card to enter the room.
The former beauty queen's husband was in the restaurant of the hotel when his wife was killed, and is not a suspect, Soopun said.
An autopsy showed that she died of asphyxiation.
