Cristiano Ronaldo and Gonzalo Higuain each scored twice as Real Madrid beat city rivals Getafe 4-2 on Thursday to move back above Barcelona at the top of the Spanish Primera Liga table.
Real Madrid's 10th successive league victory ensured Manuel Pellegrini's side move above Barcelona on goal difference, just 24 hours after the defending champions had gone top with a 2-0 win over Osasuna.
Four goals in the opening 37 minutes set the visitors on their way, with Ronaldo opening the scoring in the 13th minute with a superb free-kick.
Higuain made it 2-0 just seven minutes later after converting Rafael van der Vaart's pass and he added a third within three minutes after being put through by fellow-Argentine Fernando Gago.
That goal was Higuain's 22nd of the season, equalling his tally for the whole of last season.
And Ronaldo made it 4-0 for a rampant Real side in the 37th minute -- cutting inside from the right before thundering home a superb shot into the top corner.
But Getafe refused to lie down and pulled a goal back almost immediately when former Madrid player Dani Parejo dispossessed goalkeeper Iker Casillas before firing into an empty net.
And the home side added a second consolation goal with 10 minutes remaining when Pedro Leon slotted home after Javi Casquero's shot had deflected off Raul Albiol.
Meanwhile, Juventus continue to struggle in Italy's Serie A and they slumped to another defeat on Thursday, 3-1 at Napoli -- who moved up to sixth place in the table, one ahead of Juve.
The evening started well for Alberto Zaccheroni's side and they took an early lead when defender Giorgio Chiellini nodded home from close range.
The home side missed a penalty early in the second half before levelling when Fabio Quagliarella's superb cross from the left was headed home by Marek Hamsik, who had been the guilty party from the spot.
Hamsik then set up Quagliarella to put Napoli ahead with 18 minutes remaining and the points were sealed with two minutes left when Ezequiel Lavezzi slotted home.
