The nude body of a former swimsuit model found last weekend in Orange County was identified through her breast implants' serial number, two law enforcement sources said Friday.
An arrest warrant has been issued for Ryan Alexander Jenkins, wanted in the death of Jasmine Fiore.
An arrest warrant alleging murder was issued Thursday for Ryan Alexander Jenkins, a reality TV contestant whom Jasmine Fiore, 28, married in March.
CNN has not confirmed reports that the marriage was annulled.
Fiore's body was found Saturday in a Dumpster behind an apartment complex in Buena Park, just outside Anaheim, California. Her teeth had been extracted and fingers removed in what police said was an apparent attempt to conceal her identity.
Fiore lived in Los Angeles and was last seen alive Friday in San Diego at a poker game with Jenkins, a reality TV contestant.
"We believe he has crossed into Canada," U.S. Marshals Chief Inspector Thomas Hession told reporters. Prosecutors requested bail be set at $10 million.  Reality contestant charged »
Jenkins is believed to be armed, Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas said Thursday. "There's a handgun missing from his apartment, which is the last place he was before he fled," he said.
Jenkins matched the description of a man seen driving a boat Wednesday in Blaine Marina off northwest Washington, the Whatcom County Sheriff's Office said. Blaine, Washington, borders Canada.
Authorities searched the area and found Jenkins' black SUV with an empty boat trailer at the Blaine Marina, police said.
Jenkins reported Fiore missing Saturday night to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, authorities said.
The body was identified Monday as Fiore. While the cause of death had not been confirmed, a preliminary coroner's report indicated she was strangled.
According to court records in Las Vegas, Nevada, Jenkins was charged in June with battery for allegedly striking Fiore in the arm with his fist.
In 2007, Jenkins pleaded guilty in Calgary, Alberta, to assault in a separate case. He was sentenced to 15 months probation, ordered to undergo counseling for domestic violence and sex addiction and to stay away from the person involved, according to court records.
Jenkins, who appeared on the VH1 show "Megan Wants a Millionaire," is from Calgary.
51Minds, which produced "Megan Wants a Millionaire," said Thursday in a written statement that it "was not aware of Ryan Jenkins' record when it cast him."
"The company did have in place what it thought was a thorough vetting process that involved complete background checks by an outside company for all contestants on its shows," it said. "Clearly, the process did not work properly in this case. 51 Minds is investigating what went wrong and taking steps to ensure that this sort of lapse never occurs again."
CNN's Paul Vercammen contributed to this story.
