A 26-year police veteran who headed the Dallas Crime Stoppers has been indicted for conspiracy to commit wire fraud in connection with the tipster-based crime fighting program, U.S. Attorney James T. Jacks of the Northern District of Texas said Thursday.
Dallas Police Department Senior Cpl. Theadora Ross, 50, of Rowlett, Texas, appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge Jeff Kaplan on Wednesday, and she was released on bond, Jacks said in a statement.
A co-defendant, Malva R. Delley, 36, of Dallas also was indicted on one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, Jacks said.
Between February 2005 and May 2010, the conspirators allegedly collected at least $250,000 in cash rewards for bogus tips, the prosecutor said in a statement. No arrests, which would have been false, were ever made, Jacks said.
Crime Stoppers is a nationwide program that offers cash rewards for information from anonymous callers as long as the tip leads to the arrest and indictment of criminals, Jacks said.
The program's Dallas office is funded by the North Texas Crime Commission (NTCC) as well as with fines levied by the Dallas and Collin County courts, private donations and fundraising, Jacks' statement said. Dallas police officers and the Dallas County Sheriff's deputies staff the program, Jacks said.
According to the indictment, Ross worked at the Dallas Crime Stoppers office from 2003 to May 2010, and headed that office from March 2006 to May 2010, Jacks said.
Any tipster calling Crime Stoppers receives a "tip number," and the tipster then must regularly call the Crime Stoppers office to see if the information resulted in a reward, Jacks said.
Ross and other officers determined which tips were eligible for a cash reward, based on whether an arrest or indictment of a particular subject was related to the tip, Jacks said.
Ross selected the tips to be presented to the NTCC for approval of a cash reward, Jacks said.
Once the NTCC gave its approval, the anonymous tipster could call Crime Stoppers with a previously assigned tip number and would be given a tip number and code word, Jacks said.
The tip numbers and code words were emailed to JP Morgan Chase Bank, where the anonymous tipster was required to present the tip number and code word to collect the reward, Jacks said.
Ross allegedly sent the bank the Crime Stoppers cash reward list that included legitimate code words as well as tip numbers and code words for tips that Ross had allegedly altered, Jacks said.
Ross allegedly gave the bogus tip information to Delley, who would collect reward money from the bank, Jacks said. Ross allegedly instructed Delley to deposit the money into Ross' personal bank account or give the cash directly to Ross, Jacks charged.
If convicted, Ross and Delley each could face a maximum prison sentence of 20 years and a $250,000 fine, Jacks said.
CNN's Michael Martinez contributed to this report.
