"Chief curiosity officer" and the architect of the Plastiki voyage, David de Rothschild is only worried about sea sickness but will be armed with a copy of "The Complete Sailor" on the journey. Read the rest of David's CNN quiz answers, below.
CNN: What did you want to be when you were young?
de Rothschild: A pirate
CNN: What's the one characteristic that has led you to where you are today?
de Rothschild: Being curious and not taking no for an answer.
CNN: Who inspires you?
de Rothschild: Family, friends and Buckminster Fuller.
CNN: What's the most important lesson you've learned about yourself from the Plastiki project?
de Rothschild: Nobody is as smart as everybody.
CNN: What's your biggest hope for the expedition?
de Rothschild: To capture the imagination of as many people as possible in order to inspire, engage and activate them!
CNN: At what point would you define the Plastiki a success?
de Rothschild: When we no longer produce and carelessly throw away single-use plastics.
CNN: What is your favorite sea creature?
de Rothschild: Sharks and seahorses.
CNN: When is the last time you personally used a plastic bottle?
de Rothschild: A month ago.
CNN: What do you most value about nature?
de Rothschild: Everything , especially how humble, inspiring and raw she is!
CNN: What's the one creature comfort you'll miss most when you're at sea?
de Rothschild: A fresh water shower.
CNN: Name 3 books you will bring with you on the expedition.
de Rothschild: "Blessed Unrest" by Paul Hawken; "The World Is Blue: How Our Fate and the Ocean's Are One" by Sylvia A. Earle and Bill McKibben; "The Complete Sailor" by David Seidman.
CNN: If you had to choose a theme song for the expedition, what would it be?
de Rothschild: "Message in a Bottle" by Sting.
CNN: What's your favorite adventure film / book?
de Rothschild: "The Lorax" by Dr Seuss; "Swallows and Amazons" by Arthur Ransom.
CNN: What's your green motto?
de Rothschild:  Green is just a color that's really only salving the consciousness! It's now time to focus on acting on the solutions in front of us!
CNN: What's the most important thing you've done to prepare for life at sea?
de Rothschild: Spend time with Jo Royle and David Thomson.
CNN: What's the main emotion you're feeling right now days?
de Rothschild: Ready to leave!
CNN: What's your biggest fear for the expedition?
de Rothschild: Sea sickness.
CNN: What's the first thing you'll do when you reach Sydney?
de Rothschild: Have a long sleep!
