(CNN)It doesn't get much better than an overwater bungalow in the Maldives.
Three of the world's top 25 hotels, according to TripAdvisor, embrace this tried-and-true combo for blissful luxury vacationing.
The mammoth travel site announced its TripAdvisor Travelers' Choice awards for hotels Wednesday. More than 8,100 properties in eight regions received recognition in the 13th annual awards, which are based on the quality and quantity of traveler reviews.
Gili Lankanfushi Maldives earned the top global award. Private butler service adds to the pampering at the resort in the North Male Atoll. Maldives resorts Cocoa Island (No. 6) and Constance Moofushi (No. 15) also ranked among the world's best hotels.
Here are the top 25 on the global list:
1. Gili Lankanfushi Maldives
2. Nayara Hotel, Spa & Gardens, La Fortuna de San Carlos, Costa Rica
3. Shinta Mani Club, Siem Reap, Cambodia
4. Four Seasons Hotel Gresham Palace Budapest, Hungary
5. Belmond Palacio Nazarenas, Cusco, Peru
6. Cocoa Island by COMO, Maldives
7. Hotel Alpin Spa Tuxerhof, Tux, Austria
8. Al Maha, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
9. St. Hubertus Hotel, Gramado, Brazil
10. Tambo del Inka, Urubamba, Peru
11. Hotel Belvedere, Riccione, Italy
12. Four Seasons Country Club, Quinta do Lago, Portugal
13. Dar Al Masyaf at Madinat Jumeirah, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
14. Mandarin Oriental Pudong, Shanghai, China
15. Constance Moofushi, Maldives
16. The Gritti Palace, Venice, Italy
17. Constance Le Prince Maurice, Mauritius
18. Harvey's Point, Donegal Town, Ireland
19. The Upper House, Hong Kong
20. Haymarket Hotel, London
21. Casa Gangotena, Quito, Ecuador
22. The Langham, Chicago
23. The Oberoi, Mauritius
24. Kayakapi Premium Caves, Cappadocia, Turkey
25. The Royal Savoy Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt
In addition to the global list, TripAdvisor also parsed award winners by country and region, with 98 country lists and 8 regional lists.
The Langham, Chicago earned the top spot on the U.S. hotels list. The 316-room Windy City hotel has been impressing guests since it opened in 2013. Nightly rates in 2015 average about $440, according to TripAdvisor, but now's a good time to go. Rates in January are likely to be the year's lowest, averaging just under $350.
The No. 2 hotel in the United States, the French Quarter Inn in Charleston, South Carolina, is also offering its lowest rates of the year, according to TripAdvisor. January rates average $360, compared with a 2015 nightly average of $465.
Other imminent considerations? Romance.
With Valentine's Day just around the corner, the Inn Above Oak Creek in Sedona, Arizona, is likely to see a flurry of reservations. It received top honors as the best hotel for romance in the United States. For the world's most romantic hotel, head to Ko Tao, Thailand, for a stay at the luxury villas at The Place.
