Gian Piero Gasperini has paid the price for Inter Milan's poor start to the season, being sacked as coach following the 2010 European champions' 3-1 defeat by newly-promoted Novara on Tuesday.
The 53-year-old took charge in June, but under his guidance the 18-time Italian Serie A titleholders earned just one point from their opening three league matches to languish in 17th position in the table -- one place outside of the relegation zone.
Inter also lost to arch-rivals AC Milan in the Italian Super Cup in August and to Turkish outfit Trabzonspor in their opening European Champions League match.
"F.C. Internazionale announces that this morning's training session at the Centro Sportivo Angelo Moratti in Appiano Gentile was run by [assistant coaches] Daniele Bernazzani and Giuseppe Baresi," Inter's website reported on Wednesday.
"The club would like to thank Gian Piero Gasperini for the dedication he has shown in his work and regret having to end the relationship with the coach."
Inter slump to defeat against Novara
Inter president Massimo Moratti appeared to confirm that Gasperini faced the ax when questioned about the former Genoa boss on Wednesday before meeting with the coach.
Asked if Gasperini would remain with the Nerazzurri, Moratti replied: "I don't think so. We'll decide what to do today but he seems to be in a very difficult situation, whichever way you look at it."
On Tuesday's defeat, Inter's second in three league matches, Moratti said: "When you lose in such a way, there's nothing you like."
Gasperini replaced Brazilian coach Leonardo at Inter, having been sacked by Genoa in November 2010.
During a four-year spell with Genoa, Gasperini led the club to a fifth-place finish in Serie A in 2009 and qualification for the Europa League.
"Results are what decide everything, I'm very disappointed," he told journalists on Wednesday, AFP reported.
"I had a great relationship with the directors and it's a shame that it's had to come to an end. Everyone feels regret."
Inter, whose solitary point this season came from a 0-0 draw against Roma, face a trip to Bologna on Saturday before traveling to Russia to take on CSKA Moscow in the Champions League on Tuesday.
