As he works around the clock trying to reach 33 trapped miners in Chile, an image flashes through Brandon Fisher's mind: the clothes he saw hanging in their lockers.
They left them behind on August 5, the day they went into the depths of the gold and copper mine.
"Seeing things like that, it really gets you thinking," he said in an interview with CNN.
Outside the mine, family members are keeping vigil at a place they call "Camp Hope." Meanwhile, Fisher and a small crew of American drillers are the tip of the spear for Plan B, one of the three drilling teams racing to rescue the miners buried 2,300 feet below the ground.
On Thursday, Chilean Mining Minister Laurence Golborne said the Plan B drill was expected to break through into the area where the miners are trapped by Saturday.
It's a moment Fisher and other rescuers have been looking forward to for weeks.
Fisher said the Schramm T-130 rig -- normally used for boring water holes -- was 61 meters (200 feet) away from its target Thursday night. It appeared likely that it would reach the miners ahead of the Plan A drill, normally used for drilling ventilation chimneys in mines and the Plan C method, normally used to drill for oil.
"You can't predict the down times, the breakages, the formation issues," Fisher said. "I've felt since we got here, that as long as we had some luck on our side, we'd have a good chance of breaking through first."
Fisher is based in Berlin, Pennsylvania, in the heart of the state's mining country, thousands of miles from Chile. His company, Center Rock Inc., aided in the rescue of nine miners who were trapped for more than four days after the 2002 collapse of the Quecreek Mine.
He has drilled oil, gas and water holes -- and the foundation for the Trump Tower in Chicago, Illinois.
But those assignments pale in comparison to the difficulties of rescuing 33 men who became trapped when the copper and gold mine they were working in collapsed around them.
Even in the toughest times at the Atacama Desert mine, he said, thinking about the workers and their families has fueled rescuers' efforts.
"That quickly sets you to where you need to be," he said. "You look down at your feet and you realize that 2,000 feet below us, there's 33 guys that are in a whole hell of a lot worse situation than we are."
Depending on whether engineers decide to encase the rescue shaft with steel casing, the 33 miners could be extracted from the collapsed San Jose gold and copper mine between two and 10 days after breakthrough.
Fisher, who only knows a few Spanish words, said he's still not sure what he'll say when they meet face-to-face.
"I think it's just going to be a lot of handshakes and hugs ... It's going to be an absolutely overwhelming sensation," he said.
CNN's Karl Penhaul contributed to this report.
