A New York teacher's aide previously accused of distributing child pornography has been arrested again, this time on a charge of making such pornography, possibly on school grounds.
Taleek Brooks, 40, had been employed at Weeksville Elementary School in Brooklyn since 1995 and volunteered at an after-school program there with the Madison Square Boys and Girls Club.
The Department of Education had suspended him without pay after learning of the initial arrest on January 13, when the FBI charged him with distributing child pornography. He was rearrested Tuesday and is being held without bail.
According to the complaint, the FBI found photos and videos showing Brooks spanking a naked boy inside a classroom and touching another boy.
Last month, FBI agents searched Brooks' home and discovered more than a thousand lewd photographs and videos, authorities said. They said Brooks told them he had been collecting the material for at least seven years.
At the time, they said, Brooks admitted that he viewed and traded child pornography on daily basis.
During the search, FBI agents seized a computer and two hard drives containing the material, authorities said.
Brooks was scheduled to appear in court on the initial charge until investigators found evidence that some of the material was made by Brooks, they said.
Dennis M. Walcott, chancellor of New York City schools, met with Weeksville's principal and staff after the news of the second arrest.
"As a chancellor, and as a father, I am horrified and disgusted at the charges we learned today from the FBI," Walcott said in a written statement. "Our paramount concern is for the safety of our students, and we are cooperating fully with the federal authorities as they continue their investigation."
The school sent a letter home with the children Tuesday, informing parents that a crisis team would be at the school Wednesday and an FBI hotline had been set up for people who want to offer information.
The FBI was at the school on Wednesday trying to identify the victims and determine if the videos were shot inside the school. Jim Margolin, a spokesman for FBI, said children were not being interviewed at that time.
