MotoGP's shining star Marc Marquez has been rapped over the knuckles and "told to take more care" when riding his bike by the sport's organisers.
Running away with the MotoGP World Championship in his debut season, the 20-year-old Spaniard has been handed a penalty point and his Repsol Honda Team docked their points scored for Marquez's Aragon Grand Prix victory following his collision with teammate Dani Pedrosa.
The pair had been scrapping for second place in the race two weekends ago when Marquez made contact with Pedrosa after misjudging the braking point at Turn 12.
It broke a sensor cable on his fellow Spaniard's rear wheel and eventually led to Pedrosa crashing out of the race.
The latest punishment takes Marquez to three penalty points this season as part of a points system that was introduced at the end of last year.
Should the Spaniard pick up another penalty, he will have to start the next grand prix from the back of the grid.
The penalty was dished out following a half-hour meeting with race direction, both riders and team management at the Sepang International Circuit, which will host Sunday's Malaysian Grand Prix.
"We are sending a message to Marc, very clearly," said race director Mike Webb.
"We understand that he is an extremely talented rider but he is also intelligent enough to understand there has to be some margin for error -- especially, as we have seen a number of times this year, under braking when the rider behind has the responsibility of not getting too close to the rider in front who is riding his own lines.
"For us, that is a signal (even though the contact itself was quite minor) to make a formal warning by way of a penalty point to Marc to say he has to take more care."
Repsol Honda Team boss Livio Suppo admitted the team penalty was down to what was considered a safety lapse -- the failure of their traction-control system and the back-up unit, which, along with contact with Marquez, caused the Pedrosa crash.
"We need to think about it and see whether we have to make an appeal or not," said Suppo.
As for the Marquez penalty, Suppo added: "Marc has been penalized with one point on his license.
"That means there is no consequence for this race. Basically, they said that in this case it was more or less OK but they are taking Marc's whole season into consideration and he has been close to touching the rider in front of him on more than one occasion.
"The message was basically, 'this time it was OK but realize that you have been doing this quite often'."
