Yes, it looks delicious.
The peanut butter and chocolate goodness that is the essence of Reese's Peanut Butter Cups now comes in a jar. The announcement of Reese's new spreads came on Election Day - fitting given that the vote is still out on whether this creamy concoction will portend the death of Nutella.
Daren Russ, brand manager for Food & Beverage Enhancers with The Hershey Company, said in a statement that the spreads "offer an authentic Reese's experience to fans who are looking for delicious snack options throughout the day."
"Since 1928, we have been delivering the perfect combination of chocolate and peanut butter," he said. "With the launch of Reese's Spreads, we are honoring our great heritage and bringing consumers a new, but still perfect, way to enjoy the Reese's brand."
The 13-ounce jar will compliment Hershey's existing spread flavors including chocolate, chocolate with almond and chocolate with hazelnut. It's that last combination that has the Huffington Post declaring "It's only a matter of time before jars of Nutella get pushed toward the back of grocery shelves and begin collecting dust."
But here's why you shouldn't count Nutella out just yet:
1. It's sparked crazes in the past
The hazelnut spread has literally had people hoarding it.
CNN affiliate WABC-TV in New York reported in 2013 that students at Columbia University were costing the school some serious cash by spooning the not-so-cheap delicacy into carryout containers to take back to their dorm rooms.
2. The love is strong
According to its website, Nutella was first imported into the United States more than 25 years ago from Italy. Since then the fan base has spread (see what we just did there?) to the point that there are tons of sites, Pinterest boards and Tumblrs devoted to it. And, of course, there is a Buzzfeed list to tell you whether you're addicted to it.
There's even a "Nutella Love Song" on YouTube, and trust us, this guy really loves the stuff.
3. The thought of a shortage set off panic
When the media reported that a March 2014 frost in Turkey was threatening the hazelnut crop, and could cause a possible Nutella shortage, the hoarding began again.
All we can say is: Bring it Reese's.
