(PEOPLE.com) -- Melissa McCarthy is no longer just a bridesmaid. She's the bride.
The "Mike & Molly" Emmy winner and "Bridesmaids" scene-stealer has some big plans on her plate -- from launching her own plus-size fashion line to getting hockey's prized Stanley Cup (for a movie) -- during what is already a stellar year for her.
But none of her professional plans can top her favorite pastime, being mom to her two daughters with actor-husband Ben Falcone: Vivian, 4, and Georgette, 1Â½. McCarthy tells the Hollywood Reporter that being a mother actually helps her feel less insecure about her looks.
"The stupid stuff like what I wear or how I look I can't control, so I just try not to give too much energy to it," she says, calling her body a work in progress after giving birth to Georgette. "At 20, I would have been like: 'Don't they like me? Was it my hair?' At 41, I think the things that define me, I hope, are a lot more than those kinds of petty things."
As for those red-carpet moments, "Trying to find stuff that's still fashion-forward in my size is damn near impossible. It's either for like a 98-year-old woman or a 14-year-old hooker, and there is nothing in the middle," McCarthy wisecracks. Case in point: trying to outfit herself for the Emmys, which required sifting through "nine million dresses with taffeta or shiny bows."
The final result was McCarthy's own line that she is co-designing with couturier Daniella Pearl.
Hosting SNL This Weekend
Fans needn't fret, however -- she'll still be doing comedy, including hosting this weekend's "Saturday Night Live." She psyched for this, too, admitting to having an emotional reaction when the producers invited her to do it.
"I went into such an embarrassing, weird, inappropriately loud cry," says McCarthy. "I'm bent over, literally, in the rug section of Living Spaces, wailing."
Also ahead: starring in and co-writing a movie with "Bridesmaids" scribe Annie Mumolo, which is about hijacking the Stanley Cup to cheer up her sick husband; costarring with Jason Bateman in a movie comedy (still in the talking stage); and appearing in Judd Apatow's as-yet-untitled "Knocked Up" spin-off -- and that, reportedly, is only for starters.
See the full article at PEOPLE.com.
© 2011 People and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
