(CNN Student News) -- December 20, 2013
In our final program of 2013, CNN Student News reports on a congressional budget compromise. We also discuss a data breach at a major U.S. retailer, and we offer some suggestions for how shoppers can protect themselves against credit card fraud. Finally, we look back at some significant events and uplifting stories from the past 12 months.
Teachers, please note that CNN Student News will not air through the rest of 2013. The program will return in January.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
2013 Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this year on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. On March 13, the Roman Catholic Church's College of Cardinals elected a new pope. In what country was Pope Francis born?
2. On February 1, who was sworn in as U.S. secretary of state, succeeding Hillary Clinton?
3. In what African city did terrorists launch an attack on a shopping mall on September 21?
4. In September, Diana Nyad set a world record for an uncaged swim to the U.S. from what country?
5. What country conducted its third nuclear test on February 12, resulting in increased sanctions from the international community?
6. In what American city did terrorist bombings occur on April 15?
7. What country gave temporary asylum to former U.S. national security contractor Edward Snowden?
8. What U.S. city filed for the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history?
9. What civil war-torn country agreed to destroy its chemical weapons?
10. In December, what country became the third nation to "soft-land" a spacecraft on the moon?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
