(CNN)The Supreme Court gave proponents of same-sex marriage two major victories in 2013 -- striking down parts of the Defense of Marriage Act that denied the same benefits provided to heterosexual spouses to legally married same-sex couples, and allowing same-sex marriages to resume in California. Since then, a lot has has happened, legally, for supporters.
Here's a look at same-sex marriage in the United States, by the numbers:
37 -- U.S. states which allow same-sex marriage, plus the District of Columbia: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
13 -- The number of U.S. states with "laws or constitutional amendments that deny the freedom to marry to same-sex couples."
4 -- States involved in the challenge to the U.S. Supreme Court involving state bans on same-sex marriage. At issue is a lower court opinion that upheld same-sex marriage bans in Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and Tennessee.
1 -- U.S. territory where same-sex partners can get married: Guam.
Almost 72% -- Percentage of people in the United States who live in a state where same-sex marriage is legal.
9 million - LGBT adults in the United States.
251,695 -- Same-sex married couples in the United States in 2013, according to the Census Bureau's American Community Survey.
60% - Percentage of Americans who support same-sex marriage, according to a May 2015 Gallup Poll.
2001 -- The year the Netherlands made same-sex marriage legal. It was the first country in the world to so.
2003 -- The year the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that it is unconstitutional to criminalize sodomy.
2004 -- The year that same-sex marriage became legal in Massachusetts, the first U.S. state to do so.
19 -- Countries worldwide where same-sex marriage has been approved in the entire country: Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Wales), and Uruguay.
2 -- The number of countries where same-sex marriage is legal in some areas: Mexico and the United States.
4 -- U.S. states that allow civil unions: Colorado, Hawaii, Illinois and New Jersey.
22% -- Same-sex couples in the United States raising adopted or foster children, as of March 2015 research by the Williams Institute at UCLA.
