(CNN)"Dancing With the Stars" season 20 kicked off its 10-year anniversary celebration in its glittered ballroom with an introduction of the new season's cast from returning hosts Tom Bergeron and Erin Andrews.
Carrie Ann Inaba, Len Goodman, Bruno Tonioli and former pro dancer Julianne Hough each resumed their season 19 seats at the judges' table. Season 19's  Sadie Robertson also attended the premiere, not sitting far from a new, 14-karat-gold-plated Mirror Ball trophy revealed at the start of the show.
Since it's week one, here's a breakdown of the new contestants.
Fourteen-year-old "Hunger Games" actress Willow Shields and pro partner Mark Ballas danced a cha cha to start the night. "It was like a glass of alka seltzer: sparkling and bubbly," Goodman said. The show's youngest competitor earned 25/40.
Read more: 'Dancing With the Stars': A look back at each season's cast (photos)
Business tycoon and Shark Tank star Robert Herjavec — who was introduced to partner Kym Johnson with an offer of his Ferrari if they won — filled the second dance slot with a cha cha. "You have really sharp legs," Hough said. The judges gave the pair 28/40 for their dance.
R5 bass player Riker Lynch and Allison Holker did not utilize the ballroom floor, but performed a jive on stage to a circle of fans. "I can't wait to see you do the next dance next week," Tonioli said. A second cousin to the Houghs, the blonde-haired musician earned 31/40.
Recognized for wearing a bikini while eating a cheeseburger in her 2015 Carl's Jr. Super Bowl commercial, model Charlotte McKinney and partner Keo Motsepe — who taped her breasts down during practice — danced a jive, which earned 22/40.
Grammy-winner Patti LaBelle said, "I'm here to show America that Miss Patti can dance." Bedazzled in a gold gown, LaBelle and Artem Chigvinstev danced the Foxtrot that Goodman said had "a lovely naturalness about it." They earned 25/40.
Bachelor Chris Soules, who is engaged to his own blonde Whitney that was present in the audience, performed a country-esque jive with partner Witney Carson. Despite Hough saying, "your feet were a little loose," the pair earned 26/40.
NFL free agent Michael Sam and Peta Murgatroyd got their "Uptown Funk" on for a cha-cha that earned them a 26/40. Tombioni said it "was hot," but Goodman said his feet were "atrocious."
Five-time Olympic-winning medalist Nastia Liukin and five-time Mirror Ball trophy winner Derek Hough gave the audience a Foxtrot performance that scored 30/40. "It was sweet and delicious," Goodman said.
LMFAO singer Redfoo and Emma Slater brought a colorful "Juicy Wiggle" cha cha. "You dance like your hair: a little wild and unkempt," Goodman said before the two earned 22/40 for the premiere, but Redfoo replied: "I'm just so dedicated to learn the technique."
Read more 'Dancing With the Stars' Season 20 Cast: Who Are They, and Why Are They Famous?
Double amputee Noah Galloway and Sharna Burgess danced an inspiring cha cha. The pair earned a 26/40 for their emotional performance and Burgess was praised for her creative choreography.
"Three's Company" actress Suzanne Somers and Tony Dovolani channeled her thigh master infomercial for a 25/40-scoring cha cha. Somers told audiences that she came onto the show to prove that "blondes have more fun."
Singer-actress Rumer Willis and Valentin Chmerkovskiy saved the highest score for last. The pair danced a chandelier-lighted Foxtrot and earned 32/40."This could be your season," Goodman told Val. Parents Bruce Willis and Demi Moore cheered from the audience.
Redfoo and McKinney were at the bottom of the scoreboard and are in jeopardy of being sent home next week, while Willis and Lynch's scores are sure to secure them past week two.
Tune in to ABC at 8 p.m. on Mar. 23 to see which couple will be sent home.
See the original story at The Hollywood Reporter's site.
©2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
