In the new trailer for "Mad Max: Fury Road," the world is almost out of water, everyone's gone out of their mind -- and it all looks amazing.
The fourth installment in George Miller's post-apocalyptic series, "Mad Max: Fury Road" stars Tom Hardy in Mel Gibson's old role of Max Rockatansky, a man living in a world that is nothing but "fire and blood."
Hoping to find a way to exist in the midst of insanity, he finds a partner in Charlize Theron's Imperator Furiosa, who has no time for coddling.
"Out here, everything hurts," Theron's fierce character says in the clip. "You want to get through this? Do as I say. Now pick up what you can and run."
Between those bits of well-chosen dialogue, clever editing and a soaring score, even those who've missed out on Miller's prior "Mad Max" movies will be curious to see what "Fury Road's" all about come May 15, 2015.
If apocalypse and mayhem just isn't your flavor, there's another, gentler movie arriving around the same time: Disney-Pixar's "Inside Out."
The animated movie takes us inside the emotional center of an adolescent girl named Riley in the middle of a major transition as her family relocates from the Midwest to San Francisco. Stars like Amy Poehler, Mindy Kaling, Bill Hader and Lewis Black provide the voices of Riley's turbulent emotions, bringing life to feelings like Joy (Poehler), Fear (Hader), Anger (Black) and Disgust (Kaling.)
But as the latest trailer for "Inside Out" shows, it's not just young Riley whose emotions will be the center of attention -- we'll get to see inside her parents' heads, too.
"Inside Out" opens on June 19, 2015.
Long before either "Fury Road" or "Inside Out" make their appearances, though, Rob Corddry, Clark Duke and Craig Robinson will be back with the sequel to 2010's comedy "Hot Tub Time Machine."
This time around, the trio find themselves shuttling off into the future -- 2025, to be exact -- where they learn that their lives take a downward turn. But in an attempt to fix the problems before they start the trio accidentally cause another crisis, as seen in the movie's new trailer. (Warning: There's some crude and potentially offensive humor in this clip.)
"Hot Tub Time Machine 2" opens February 20, 2015.
