The 2014 CMA Awards could turn into a very big night for Miranda Lambert.
The "Somethin' Bad" songstress leads this year's group of nominees with nine nominations, matching the number of nods she got in 2010. Before Lambert's 2010 windfall, no female artist in the history of the CMA Awards had received that many nominations in one year. (Alan Jackson holds the record for most CMA Awards nominations overall, thanks to the 10 he earned in 2002.)
Coming in behind Lambert is Dierks Bentley, who earned five nominations, and Eric Church and Keith Urban, who have four nominations each.
Urban and Lambert are both nominated for 2014's entertainer of the year award, along with Luke Bryan, Blake Shelton (Lambert's husband), and George Strait, who won the honor at last year's ceremony.
2013 CMA Awards big night for Shelton, Lambert and Swift
And that's not all: Lambert's June release, "Platinum," is nominated for album of the year, and her track "Automatic" is nominated for best single and best song of the year. For album of the year, she'll compete with Luke Bryan's "Crash My Party," Keith Urban's "Fuse," Eric Church's "The Outsiders" and Dierks Bentley's "Riser."
In the female vocalist category, Lambert's up against Martina McBride, Kacey Musgraves, Taylor Swift, and Carrie Underwood. Underwood is also hosting this year's show, alongside Brad Paisley.
The 2014 CMA Awards, which will be the 48th edition of country music's biggest night, will air live from Nashville on ABC on November 5.
Entertainer of the year
Luke Bryan
Miranda Lambert
Blake Shelton
George Strait
Keith Urban
Single of the year
"Automatic," Miranda Lambert
"Drunk on a Plane," Dierks Bentley
"Give Me Back My Hometown," Eric Church
"Meanwhile Back at Mama's," Tim McGraw featuring Faith Hill
"Mine Would Be You," Blake Shelton
Album of the year
"Crash My Party," Luke Bryan
"Fuse," Keith Urban
"Platinum," Miranda Lambert
"Riser," Dierks Bentley
"The Outsiders," Eric Church
Song of the year
"Automatic," written by Nicolle Galyon, Natalie Hemby and Miranda Lambert
"Follow Your Arrow," written by Kacey Musgraves, Brandy Clark and Shane McAnally
"Give Me Back My Hometown," written by Eric Church and Luke Laird
"I Don't Dance," written by Lee Brice, Rob Hatch, and Dallas Davidson
"I Hold On," written by Brett James and Dierks Bentley
Female vocalist of the year
Miranda Lambert
Martina McBride
Kacey Musgraves
Taylor Swift
Carrie Underwood
Male vocalist of the year
Dierks Bentley
Luke Bryan
Eric Church
Blake Shelton
Keith Urban
Vocal group of the year
Eli Young Band
Lady Antebellum
Little Big Town
The Band Perry
Zac Brown Band
Vocal duo of the year
Dan + Shay
Florida Georgia Line
Love and Theft
The Swon Brothers
Thompson Square
Music video of the year
"Automatic," Miranda Lambert
"Bartender," Lady Antebellum
"Drunk on a Plane," Dierks Bentley
"Follow Your Arrow," Kacey Musgraves
"Somethin' Bad," Miranda Lambert and Carrie Underwood
New artist of the year
Brandy Clark
Brett Eldredge
Kip Moore
Thomas Rhett
Cole Swindell
To see the full list of nominees, visit CMAWorld.com.
