Washington Wizards player Javaris Crittenton Monday became the second member of the NBA team to plead guilty to a weapons charge following a gun-toting locker-room incident.
Crittenton, 22, pleaded guilty in Superior Court in the District of Columbia to a misdemeanor count of possession of an unregistered firearm. He will avoid jail time.
Judge Bruce Beaudin sentenced Crittenton to one year of unsupervised probation. The judge also ordered him to perform community service with a children's organization in Washington and through the NBA's Haiti project.
"Possessing a firearm unlawfully in the District of Columbia can lead to nothing but trouble and can have serious consequences," said U.S. Attorney Channing Phillips. "We commend Mr. Crittenton for accepting responsibility and hope he fully appreciates the gravity of his actions," Phillips said.
The Wizards said in a statement that the charges and Crittenton's plea were "another disappointing development in what has already been a long and frustrating process for the team, the NBA and, most importantly, our fans."
"Javaris clearly used very bad judgment in this situation and will now face the consequences of his actions," the statement said.
Crittenton, who is currently listed as inactive on the Wizards' roster and has not played a game all season, agreed with prosecutors that the incident stemmed from an angry exchange with teammate Gilbert Arenas following arguments over a card game. The argument led to shooting threats, according to documents submitted to the court.
Prosecutors say Arenas threatened to burn or blow up Crittenton's car when they came to practice the following Monday.
"According to Crittenton before he left his home in Virginia for practice that day, Crittenton placed a lawfully owned unloaded handgun into his backpack because he believed that Arenas would carry out his threat to shoot him that day," prosecutors said.
Authorities say Crittenton displayed the weapon to Arenas, but did not aim it at him or load the weapon. Arenas had placed four of his own guns at Crittenton's locker and told him to "pick one," authorities said.
Authorities say Crittenton had been cooperating with them after the incident, and had voluntarily surrendered his weapon, a 9 mm semi-automatic Taurus, to law enforcement officials.
Arenas, a former NBA all-star, pleaded guilty to a more serious felony charge and faces potentially six months in jail, and has been suspended indefinitely by the NBA. His sentencing is set for March 26.
