Greece is through to the knockout stages of the World Cup for the first time in its history after a dramatic 2-1 win against Ivory Coast in Group C.
Georgios Samaras kept a cool head to net from the penalty spot in injury time to seal second place in the group behind Colombia.
It was a cruel blow for the Ivorians who were themselves on course to make the knockout stages for the first time after Wilfried Bony scored in the 74th minute.
The Swansea City striker had leveled the scores after Andreas Samaris had put the Greeks ahead three minutes before the break.
A draw would have been enough for Sabri Lamouchi's side but Greece's persistence paid off when Samaras fired home a spot kick after being brought down by substitute Giovanni Sio in the 91st minute.
Victory means Fernando Santos' side finish second in Group C with four points and will now face Group D winners Costa Rica who drew with England 0-0 earlier on Tuesday.
Defeat not only brought Ivory Coast's tournament to an end but also the reign of manager Lamouchi who announced he was stepping down shortly after the match.
"I have put a lot of time and effort into the past two years but unfortunately my story with Ivory Coast ends this evening," Lamouchi said.
"The outcome is a cruel one but the Greeks did not steal this victory. I am very disappointed and sad and also for the players and the Ivorian people," he added.
Colombia, meanwhile, will meet Uruguay in Rio on Saturday after confirming top spot in the group with another convincing display.
A 4-1 win against Japan in Cuiaba ensured Jose Pekerman's side scored maximum points from their three matches.
Juan Cuadrado gave Los Cafeteros the lead in the 17th minute -- firing home from the penalty spot after Yasuyuki Konno had brought down Adrián Ramos.
Japan drew level on the stroke of halftime when Shinji Okazaki headed home from Keisuke Honda's cross before Colombia ran away with the match in the second half.
Jackson Martinez netted on the hour mark after substitute James Rodriguez's neat pass allowed the Porto striker to drill a low shot past goalkeeper Eiji Kawashima.
Martinez added a third with eight minutes remaining before Rodriguez banged in a fourth in the last minute of the match.
Colombia's will have to wait to see if Uruguay, who claimed second spot in Group D after beating Italy 1-0, will be fielding Luis Suarez.
The mercurial striker was once again in the spotlight for the wrong reasons after appearing to bite Italy defender Giorgio Chiellini during the match in Natal.
The incident, which happened moments before Uruguay scored the winning goal, was not seen by the referee but is being investigated by FIFA.
Read more: Luis Suarez embroiled in new 'biting' storm
Read more: How social media chewed up Luis Suarez
