Boxer Floyd Mayweather Jr.'s fans and critics will find out Saturday night if he's still "Money" -- his nickname -- and still undefeated, when he takes on WBA super-welterweight champion Miguel Cotto in Las Vegas.
The two fighters offer divergent personalities out of the ring, and distinct styles in it. The 31-year-old Cotto is more inconspicuous and workmanlike, while the 35-year-old Mayweather has a more flamboyant, brash reputation and a sizable cohort of celebrity supporters. Those wishing him luck on Twitter shortly before the fight included teen pop star Justin Bieber, skateboarder and MTV personality Rob Drydek, musician Akon, and Rob Kardashian of the E! reality show clan.
The breakdown of the purse for the fight demonstrates the fighters' respective clout: Win or lose, Mayweather is set to pocket $32 million, while Cotto would get $8 million.
While the odds are against him, Cotto declared before the bout that he had "no doubt" he'd win.
"I'm ready and prepared for anything he can bring to me," Cotto said.
Physically, Mayweather entered the bout as the taller of the two by an inch, while Cotto weighed in at 154 pounds, three pounds more than his foe.
Max Kellerman, a boxing analyst and commentator for HBO (which like CNN is owned by Time Warner) said Mayweather has evolved into a "consistent, thudding puncher" who counts on pressuring his opponent.
In the other corner, Cotto is known for being aggressive and a deft puncher, added Kellerman.
The Puerto Rican has lost twice in his professional career, most recently against eight-division champion Manny Pacquiao -- whom Mayweather has famously challenged verbally, but has never fought.
After an accomplished amateur career that includes several Golden Gloves titles, Mayweather burst on the pro scene in 1996 and hasn't lost since. The Michigan native's athletic success speaks for itself, having won seven different titles in various weight classes in his career. But he's had his share of trouble outside of the ring.
That includes a 90-day prison sentence tied to his conviction on a domestic violence charge, after police said he'd punched the mother of his children at his home.
Mayweather had been set to go to prison earlier this year, but a Nevada judge pushed back his reporting date to June because the boxer had already lined up Saturday's fight date.
