Defending world champion Sebastian Vettel has said that he likes the Shanghai circuit, despite a disappointing performance in last year's Chinese Grand Prix.
Vettel started last year's race in pole position, but eventually finished down in sixth place. However, he is confident he can handle the track better this year following his impressive in the first two races of the season.
Speaking to the official Formula One website, the Red Bull driver said: "We struggled last year, but I like the track and I've had some good drives there in the past.
"Generally the overseas races are special, as you go there a few days earlier than usual, so you get to see different things. I enjoy that and am looking forward to the race."
McLaren dominated last year's race by finishing first and second -- and winner Jenson Button revealed the team are determined to close the gap on Red Bull this weekend.
"Off the back of two successive podium finishes for the team, we're not only hopeful of maintaining our finishing record, but of improving it too in China," said Button.
"We've made no secret of our desire to take the fight to Red Bull, and we're fully aware that stronger opposition will make it harder for them to have a smooth and uninterrupted weekend."
Meanwhile, McLaren team principal Martin Whitmarsh revealed that his team are pulling out all the stops in order to close the gap on Red Bull.
"Coming just a week after Malaysia, it's essential that we maintain the thrust of our development program in order to further close the gap at the front.
"We'll be spending Friday evaluating a number of new components alongside our regular tire and set-up programs.
"We have a number of new parts that we want to evaluate on Friday -- either for potential incorporation into our program for the Shanghai race, or as part of our longer-term development strategy."
Vettel leads the 2011 Formula One standings with a maximum 50 points from two races, 24 points ahead of Button with their respective teammates -- Mark Webber and Louis Hamilton -- joint third on 22 points.
