(CNN Student News) -- April 18, 2014
This Friday, we show you how the town of West, Texas is rebuilding, one year after an enormous explosion claimed lives and homes. We also explore how the use of an illegal drug is more dangerous in some communities than crime and car accidents. And we take viewers from the ocean depths in a submarine to skyscraper heights in a convertible.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Do you think that reporter demonstrations from unique vehicles (like submarines or aircraft) add value to a newscast? If so, to what extent?
Weekly Newsquiz:  The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What is the name of the deadly hemorrhagic fever that has broken out in the West African nation of Guinea?
2. What sport's professional championship is awarded a trophy named for Lord Frederick Arthur Stanley?
3. During what kind of event is the moon in Earth's umbra?
4. What city's annual marathon was the scene of a terrorist bombing one year ago?
5. What country is seeing dramatic protests as its people are divided over alliance with Russia or Western Europe?
6. What is the name of the form that the U.S. government requires students to fill out if they are seeking federal financial aid for college?
7. Who became the first African-American to play in baseball's Major Leagues?
8. What institution, based in Washington, D.C., is the world's largest museum and research complex?
9. At the top of what building, once the world's tallest, did the Ford Motor Company stage a display to promote one of its new cars?
10. What organization announced a proposal to expand meal programs for Division I college athletes?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
