Game 7 of the NBA Finals will be all about heart, Miami Heat superstar LeBron James said.
The four-time MVP is seeking his second NBA crown when his Heat hosts the San Antonio Spurs on Thursday night.
Both teams are well-prepared, he said, and they know each other well. They know what will work on offense, what to do on defense. What gives a team an edge will be each player's mental makeup.
"I think it's about heart and determination at this point," he said Wednesday.
James sparked the Heat to a comeback win in Game 6, hitting a key 3-pointer in the final 20 seconds of regulation.
He had a triple-double -- 32 points, 11 assists and 10 rebounds -- as the Heat won 103-100 in an overtime game many commentators have called one of the best NBA playoff games ever.
In the last game, the Heat took off after James took off his signature headband. But when the final game of the season starts, James will be wearing it.
"He has been a part of this journey, the ups and downs of my career so far, so we'll see what happens." he said.
James became not only a different looking man down the stretch, he became a different player.
"He was about doing whatever it took," Heat guard Dwyane Wade said. "And I'm sure we get in that moment again, he's going to do whatever it takes again."
The Spurs may have been deflated by giving away a 10-point fourth-quarter lead, but rebounded emotionally, thanks to an unusual early morning team dinner after the game, which ended after 11 p.m.
Star center Tim Duncan said instead of each player going back to his hotel room and ordering room service and beating himself up, the team went out.
It helped to talk things out.
"It's always good to be around teammates and kind of get some stuff out in the open. We did exactly that," he said.
Early in the season, the Spurs sent Duncan and three other players back to San Antonio for rest instead of to a contest in Miami that ended a six-game road trip. The Spurs were fined $250,000.
There were no fatigued Spurs on Wednesday, he said, after a season of more than 100 games over nine months.
"We're not tired in any way," said the 37-year-old Duncan, who played 44 minutes on Tuesday. "There's no being tired at this point. We've got one more game to win, and that's all that matters."
For James, if the Heat don't win, it's a season down the drain. After all, he said he left the Cleveland Cavaliers three years ago and joined Wade with the Heat for one reason -- to win championships.
Winning his first crown last year was hard, he said. But this year has been harder.
He told reporters Wednesday he would be antsy and nervous before Game 7, but that's how it should be.
"The moment is going to be grand. ... I'm happy to be a part of it."
CNN's Rachel Nichols contributed to this report.
