(CNN Student News) -- November 14, 2014
About two-thirds of the U.S. is feeling our first story this Friday: Unseasonable cold, thanks to a "bomb cyclone," is dropping temperatures on the country. Science also comes into play in stories about a Hawaiian lava flow and the recent contact between a spacecraft and a comet. For social studies teachers, we've included a report about the mysterious dictator of a secretive Asian country. Fridays are fascinating on CNN Student News!
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. The U.S. is planning to double the number of its troops, bringing the total to about 3,000, in what Middle Eastern nation?
2. For Cabinet nominations, the U.S. Constitution requires the president to seek the advice and consent from what part of the government?
3. In what year did the Berlin Wall "fall," allowing people to travel freely between East and West Berlin?
4. What agency of the U.S. federal government was recently hacked, potentially exposing the information of 750,000 employees and 3 million customers?
5. Armistice Day was named for an event that took place on November 11th of what year?
6. What country hosted the APEC summit, where President Obama met with other world leaders this week?
7. What is the name of the European Space Agency mission to Comet 67P?
8. What two-word term describes a political session between an election and the time when the newly elected leaders take office?
9. After Mexico, name one of the two leading countries of birth for new U.S. residents.
10. What is the smallest U.S. state, measuring 48 miles long and 37 miles wide?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
