(CNN Student News) -- January 21, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Washington, D.C.  • China • Texas
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: It is Friday, and it is awesome! Thank you for rounding out your week with CNN Student News. From the CNN Center in Atlanta, Georgia, I'm Carl Azuz. Let's get to today's headlines.
First Up: China Relations
AZUZ: First up, President Hu heads to the Hill. The Chinese leader wrapping up his visit to Washington, D.C. yesterday. The reception he got when he met with congressional leaders on Capitol Hill, not necessarily a warm one. Democratic and Republican leaders raised some of the strong concerns they have about China's policies on human rights and economic issues.
It was a different story Wednesday night at the White House, when President Hu was the guest of honor at a formal state dinner with President Obama you see here. These are special events, these state dinners, for world leaders when they visit the United States. The White House hadn't hosted one for China since 1997.
During his time in Washington, President Hu talked about China's role as one of the biggest economic powers in the world. Some of China's economic policies are frustrating some officials and companies in the United States, and Brian Todd explains why.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT, WASHINGTON, D.C.: At the White House, the dignified pageantry of a state visit for China's president, Hu Jintao. But just under the surface, smoldering resentment towards the Chinese in the halls of American government and business. Accusations of currency manipulation, unfair barriers to American businesses in China, and American products being copied or ripped off. Bootlegged DVDs of the latest Hollywood releases are sometimes available on Chinese streets before they even open in American theaters. American companies developing electronics, prescription drugs and software have similar complaints.
The Chinese government even engages in some of this practice, right?
FRED BERGSTEN, PETERSON INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS: The Chinese government has laws that protect intellectual property, but in practice, enforcement is very lax. And in some cases, Chinese government agencies, including military agencies, will sometimes rip off the intellectual property themselves.
TODD: Fred Bergsten of the Peterson Institute says the Chinese steal American intellectual property by reverse engineering: buying American products, figuring out how they're put together. Then they make those parts themselves at a cheaper cost. Then there are complaints about China's trade rules. Take a company like Marlin Steel Products in Baltimore, where 20 percent of revenue comes from exports. Company president Drew Greenblatt says he'd like to export to China, but the Chinese have a rule that many products sold to government agencies there, or which get tax breaks, have to be made completely in China. Known as the "indigenous innovation policy," it stacks the deck against American companies like Marlin Steel. There's a direct impact, Greenblatt says, on American jobs.
GREENBLATT: For every million dollars in new exports I get, I'm going to hire about eight more people.
TODD: Chinese officials say their trade policies are not unfair, and they're stepping up enforcement of intellectual property laws. But the list of American complaints may prompt action from Congress, especially newly empowered Republican leaders in the House.
What are you and other congressional leaders prepared to do to put more pressure on China to level this playing field?
REP. CHARLES BOUSTANY, (R) LOUISIANA: We're going to continue to work, looking at our trade law, what we have to enforce trade agreements. We're going to continue to really pressure Chinese leaders, whether it's coming from Congress or from the administration, on this indigenous innovation policy and meeting their agreements under the WTO, the World Trade Organization agreements.
TODD: But taking action against China is not risk free. Fred Bergsten of the Peterson Institute says, as the second biggest economy in the world right now, the Chinese have a lot of clout, that they can and will retaliate. They'll block U.S. exports, they'll reduce their investments in American securities. The Chinese are America's biggest banker in the world by far, Bergsten says, and right now, they have a lot of leverage. Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
(END VIDEO)
Is This Legit?
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? The U.S. vice president oversees the U.S. House of Representatives. Not true! That part of Congress is overseen by the Speaker of the House.
Health Care Vote
AZUZ: Republican John Boehner is currently serving in the role as speaker of the House. And earlier this week, he oversaw a House vote to repeal President Obama's controversial health care reform law. This law is widely considered to be President Obama's biggest U.S. accomplishment while he was president. House Republicans are working to come up with some replacement plans for the law. But as Samantha Hayes explains, the idea of repealing the existing law altogether might not go any further than it already has.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
SAMANTHA HAYES, CNN CORRESPONDENT, WASHINGTON, D.C.: It may turn out to be largely symbolic, but House Republicans, along with three Democrats, voted Wednesday to repeal the health care law championed by President Barack Obama and Democratic leaders in Congress. The vote, 245 to 189, was mostly along party lines. It's the culmination of a campaign promise Republicans made ahead of the November midterm elections. The next step for the newly passed legislation is all but certain: the Senate likely won't even take it up. Earlier Wednesday, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor challenged his Democratic counterpart in the Senate, Majority Leader Harry Reid, to consider the bill.
REP. ERIC CANTOR, (R) MAJORITY LEADER: And leader Reid continues to say that he is not going to bring this up for a vote in the Senate. The American people deserve a full hearing. They deserve to see this legislation go to the Senate for a full vote.
HAYES: A new CNN/Opinion Research Corporation poll shows 50 percent of Americans favor getting rid of the law. But for Democrats, defending the president's top domestic achievement is paramount.
REP. ROBERT ANDREWS, (D) NEW JERSEY: I think what is picking up steam is the understanding that this repeal hurts the middle class of this country.
REP. JOHN LARSON, (D) CONNECTICUT: This is not about campaign promises. This is about real people experiencing real problems in real time that we need to address.
HAYES: Most Republicans acknowledge that an outright repeal is highly unlikely and will instead focus on finding ways to cut funding for the law. For CNN Student News, I'm Samantha Hayes.
(END VIDEO)
Mafia Raids
AZUZ: Federal agents carry out a huge raid on suspected Mafia members and take dozens of people into police custody. Kinda sounds like something out of a movie, and some of the suspects arrested yesterday probably wish it was. Officials are calling this one of the biggest, single-day operations against the mafia in FBI history. More than a hundred people with alleged ties to the mob were arrested across parts of New York, New Jersey, Rhode Island and even Italy. The charges include drug trafficking, illegal gambling, extortion, arson and murder. Some of those charges go back to 1981. Officials say organized crime -- the mob -- is an ongoing threat, but that yesterday's raids made a serious dent against that threat.
Shoutout
JOHN LISK, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for the Shoutout! Which of these terms describes a low-level crime? If you think you know it, shout it out! Is it: A) Felony, B) Habeus corpus, C) Capital offense or D) Misdemeanor? You've got three seconds -- GO! A misdemeanor is a low-level crime. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Ticketing Students
AZUZ: So, for examples of a misdemeanor: They might include vandalism; they might include trespassing. In parts of Texas, you can add disrupting class or using profanity to that list. Instead of getting sent to the principal's office, students who act up are issued tickets and could end up in court in some places! They could face fines of up to $500. This policy isn't new; it's been going on for a while there. Some parents aren't happy about it. They argue that schools and parents -- not the court system -- should help students figure out right from wrong. A school district in Dallas issued a statement saying, "The vast majority of our students are not disruptive. Those who do receive tickets are hopefully learning that their actions have consequences."
Promo
AZUZ: You know what comes next. Go to CNNStudentNews.com and tell us what you think of this story! Our blog is the perfect place for you to sound off on ticketing as a method of discipline. And if you don't like it, tell us what should be done instead. Also, you should totally introduce our show. Record your intro, head to CNNStudentNews.com to send us your iReport. And then, look for our e-mail response that tells you the next step in getting on CNN Student News. It's easier than you think!
Before We Go
AZUZ: And before we go today, they say beauty is in the eye of the beholder. In this guy's case, his good looks are also at the mercy of the sun. Students heading back for the spring semester at Notre Dame were greeted by this frosty fellow. His eyes are made of coal; yeah, that's pretty predictable. But the nose is a traffic cone. And the hat, well, that's from the sculpture that this gigantic snowman was built around.
Goodbye
AZUZ: It's a cool idea. We just hope no one got confused and thought it was a real person. Although if they did, you know what we'd have to tell them: That's no man! It's the kind of story you can always say you thaw on CNN Student News. We're gonna go chill out. We hope you have a great weekend, that you forgive us for those puns, and that you join us on Monday, when CNN Student News returns. Bye bye now!
