Editor's note: CNN.com has a business partnership with CareerBuilder.com, which serves as the exclusive provider of job listings and services to CNN.com.
With money a bit tight these days, many people searching for jobs would like a salary of $80,000 a year.
(CareerBuilder.com) -- Let's be honest: Sometimes you don't care about the job -- you just care about the salary.
But it's awfully hard to look for a job that fits both your salary requirements and your skill set. Not to mention that we always tell you that your work and career should be something you love. Ideally, money is just an added benefit.
That being said, we're also realists. We know that times are tough and at this point, some people just need to get paid.
We went to the Bureau of Labor Statistics to look at the latest (May 2008) salary information for the United States and found 30 occupations pay in the $80,000 range based on national averages.
1. Administrative law judges, adjudicators and hearing officers Do this: Conduct hearings to rule on government-related claims; determine penalties and liability; and help to craft settlements. Get paid: $80,870
2. Biomedical engineers Do this: Design and develop devices and procedures to help solve health-related problems. Projects might include information systems, artificial organs or artificial limbs. Get paid: $81,120
3. Chiropractors Do this: Diagnose and treat musculoskeletal conditions of the spinal column to prevent disease and alleviate imbalance, pain and pressure believed to be caused by interference with nervous system. Get paid: $81,340
4. Atmospheric, earth, marine and space sciences teachers, post-secondary Do this: Teach courses and research topics in the physical sciences, except chemistry and physics. Get paid: $81,470
5. Agents and business managers of artists, performers and athletes Do this: Represent and promote their client's business while handling business matters and contract negotiations. Get paid: $81,550
6. Materials scientists Do this: Study the chemical composition of various materials and figure out ways to develop new materials and improve existing ones; also determine ways to use materials in products. Get paid: $81,600
7. Physician assistants Do this: Perform health-care services and provide treatment plans under a physician's supervision. Get paid: $81,610
8. Medical scientists, except epidemiologists Do this: Research and investigate human diseases and how to improve human health. Get paid: $81,870
9. Physics teachers, post-secondary Do this: Teach courses and research topics pertaining to the laws of matter and energy. Get paid: $81,880
10. Atmospheric and space scientists Do this: Study the effects the atmosphere has on the environment, most commonly through weather forecasting. Get paid: $82,080
11. Management analysts Do this: Figure out best practices of management by conducting studies and procedures to help companies figure out how to operate more effectively. Get paid: $82,920
12. Producers and directors Do this: Produce or direct, and make all creative decisions for stage, television, radio, video or motion picture productions. Get paid: $83,030
13. Biological science teachers, post-secondary Do this: Teach courses and research topics in biological sciences. Get paid: $83,270
14. Materials engineers Do this: Develop new uses for recognized materials, and develop new machinery and processes to make materials for use in specialized products. Get paid: $84,200
15. Transportation, storage and distribution managers Do this: Oversee transportation, storage or distribution activities in accordance with governmental policies and regulations. Get paid: $84,520
16. Financial analysts Do this: Assess the financial situations of an individual or organization. Get paid: $84,780
17. Electrical engineers Do this: Design, develop and test the manufacturing and installation of electrical equipment. Get paid: $85,350
18. Education administrators, elementary and secondary school Do this: Oversee all activities of public or private elementary or secondary schools. Get paid: $86,060
19. Industrial-organizational psychologists Do this: Work with companies to solve problems within the company. You may help with policy planning; employee screening, training and development; and organizational development and analysis. Get paid: $86,460
20. Computer software engineers, applications Do this: Build computer applications software and code; ensure that all software projects adhere to a company's technology and business standards. Get paid: $87,900
21. Economics teachers, post-secondary Do this: Teach courses and research topics in economics. Get paid: $88,330
22. Biochemists and biophysicists Do this: Study the chemical composition and physical principles of living cells and organisms, their electrical and mechanical energy, and related phenomena. Get paid: $88,450
23. Art directors Do this: Create design concepts and presentation in artwork, layout design and copywriting for visual communications media. Get paid: $88,510
24. Electronics engineers, except computer Do this: Design, develop and test a wide range of electronic equipment, from CD players to global positioning systems. Get paid: $88,670
25. Medical and health services managers Do this: Supervise medical and health services in hospitals, clinics and similar organizations. Get paid: $88,750
26. Chemical engineers Do this: Design chemical plant equipment and create processes for manufacturing chemicals and products. Get paid: $88,760
27. Geoscientists, except hydrologists and geographers Do this: Study the composition, structure and other physical aspects of the Earth. Get paid: $89,300
28. Veterinarians Do this: Provide health care for family pets, livestock and zoo animals. Provide check-ups, treat diseases and advise caretakers on how to best raise their animals. Get paid: $89,450
29. Construction managers Do this:Oversee all activities concerned with the construction and maintenance of structures, facilities and systems. Get paid: $89,770
30. Sales engineers Do this: Sell business goods or services, the selling of which requires a technical background equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering. Get paid: $89,770
Jobs by Salary, a new salary tool from CBSalary.com, allows you to search for jobs by salary based on where you live or work in the United States
Copyright CareerBuilder.com 2009. All rights reserved. The information contained in this article may not be published, broadcast or otherwise distributed without the prior written authority
