The latest celebrity breakup is a surprising one: Folk singer Jewel and her husband Ty Murray are going their separate ways.
Jewel made the announcement herself on her blog on July 2, explaining that she and Murray, whom she calls her "husband, friend and partner of 16 years," preferred for the world to hear about their impending divorce directly.
"Ty and I have always tried to live the most authentic life possible, and we wanted our separation as husband and wife to be nothing less loving than the way we came together," Jewel writes. "We have no desire to damage ourselves and each other in the process ... while we learn to redraw ourselves in whatever new shape we find as separate people who are still striving to be the best versions of ourselves- as humans and as parents."
Jewel and Murray, a professional rodeo cowboy, married in 2008 after dating for 10 years. They welcomed their only child, son Kase, in 2011.
"Oddly the very thing that Ty and I sought in coming together is the very thing we seek in separating," Jewel says in her blog. "We both value growth. And growth became tragically and undeniably stifled as a couple, and we believe we can find it again in setting each other free. We truly believe we can find greater happiness apart than together, and this is why we are taking the enormous and heartbreaking step of divorce."
As she shared her news, Jewel also thanked her fans for supporting her throughout her career -- flaws and all.
"I am forever grateful for the acceptance and compassion I found in my fan base as I shared my deepest hurts and shames along side my moments of inspiration and truth," the singer says. "I have learned in these 20 years of living my life honestly in front of you to trust that you will all honor and have reverence for how difficult this journey is, and allow us our process as we not only grieve the loss of our marriage, but also as we recreate ourselves in the ashes."
While Jewel did most of the talking in the lengthy update, she and her husband did give a joint statement as well:
"Our dedication to our son is unwavering and we are both committed to being the best partners in raising our son," the couple say. "Due to the spirit in which we have gone about this separation, we trust we can remain dear friends who hold each other in high esteem, which is so important to us as parents, as we wish only what is best for our son."
