Real estate mogul, reality TV star and possible Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump told people to "stay tuned" for an unveiling of his net worth, promising more details as he addresses questions about his wealth.
"If I run for office, you are going to know exactly what I'm worth," Trump told CNN's "In the Arena," which has been investigating his finances. "You're going to know where the banks are, how much I have in the bank."
In recent months, Trump has touted his wealth as a possible asset -- and evidence of his business acumen -- as he considers whether to run against President Barack Obama in 2012. He said Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union" that his "net worth is many, many, many times" that of Republican Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who has announced his plans to run.
"I built a very big net worth and I'd like to put that ability ... to work for this country," Trump said.
On Friday, Trump continued to play up his wealth, coupled with how he has run his business.
"I have built a great company." Trump said. "I have built a company that has very little debt, has a lot of cash and I have one of the best locations anywhere in the United States."
Eliot Spitzer, the host of "In the Arena," and CNN Senior Legal Analyst Jeffrey Toobin are digging into a sworn deposition given by Trump in a 2007 libel case calling into question his net worth.
"Hopefully you will find out, because this country is such in bad shape somebody has to do something as quickly as possible," Trump said.
Earlier in the day, he told CNN National Correspondent Susan Candiotti that his accountants are already hard at work on the financial paperwork required of presidential candidates.
"They're in the process," said "The Apprentice" star.
Trump vowed that any financial disclosure will be released "simultaneously" if and when he announces that he's running for president.
Forbes magazine lists Trump's net worth at $2.7 billion -- a figure that he derided as "very, very low relative to what my real net worth is."
In 2004, Trump lost majority control of his casino business under a bankruptcy restructuring plan. The company cited a weak economy and burdensome interest payments as reasons for the restructuring.
Trump Entertainment Resorts filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in February 2009, according to court documents filed in Camden, New Jersey. Trump quit his position as chairman of that company, which had total assets of $2.06 billion and total debts of $1.74 billion. Around that same time, nine other of Trump Entertainment's associated companies filed for bankruptcy protection, including Trump Taj Majal Associates, Trump Marina Associates and Trump Plaza Associates.
