A 21-year-old Idaho man charged with trying to assassinate President Obama by firing a rifle at the White House is competent to stand trial, a federal judge ruled Friday.
In issuing the ruling, Magistrate Judge John Facciola turned down a request by government prosecutors for Oscar Ortega-Hernandez to undergo more mental evaluation.
Dr. Elizabeth Teegarden, a clinical psychologist who interviewed the accused for 50 minutes, told the court she concluded, "he was clearly competent to stand trial."
Federal prosecutor George Varghese asked Teegarden if she was aware the defendant had referred to himself as a modern-day Jesus Christ and if she knew he reportedly thought the government had a plan to implant global positioning system chips inside U.S. citizens to be able to track them. She said she had not been given that information before she interviewed Ortega-Hernandez.
The psychologist said that during the interview, Ortega-Hernandez answered questions about his background, said he had never been treated for a mental illness, and understood the function of the judges and lawyers involved in his case.
Teegarden said that when she asked him about comments he had allegedly made to people he knows in Idaho that indicated he might want to hurt Obama, Ortega-Hernandez didn't want to discuss the subject.
"I don't see any delusions in this case that affect competency," Teegarden said. "I saw no delusional thinking, period."
Teegarden, who works for the city's Department of Mental Health, said she does more than 400 mental competency evaluations a year.
Ortega-Hernandez sat quietly during the hearing and appeared to listen closely to Teegarden's testimony. He wore a dark prison jumpsuit and leg shackles.
He is scheduled to appear in court Monday for a probation and preliminary hearing at which the government is expected to provide probable cause evidence that he fired a rifle at the White House on the evening of November 11 in an attempt to assassinate Obama. Obama was traveling in California the night the shots were fired.
On Thursday, the government filed a document arguing Ortega-Hernandez should be kept in jail and not be freed on bail. The filing included details on Ortega-Hernandez's actions on the day of the shooting and in the aftermath.
After Ortega-Hernandez was captured in Indiana, Pennsylvania, five days after the shooting, he told investigators he had been carjacked by a man with a gun on the day the White House shooting took place, according to the filing. He allegedly said the man who stole his car and his wallet must have been the person who shot at the White House. Prosecutors say there is videotape showing Ortega-Hernandez shopping at a Walmart store in Fairfax, Virginia, two hours after he said he was robbed in Washington.
According to the document, Ortega-Hernandez also said he has never owned a gun. Prosecutors say they have two witnesses from Idaho who contradict that and tie him to a rifle found in a car abandoned not far from the White House on the night of the shooting. One witness said he sold the Romanian-made assault rifle to Ortega-Hernandez last March, and the other said he attached a scope to the weapon and saw Ortega-Hernandez practice shooting with it, according to the court filing.
"Five confirmed bullet impact points" were found on the south side of the White House, according to the document. Two bullets and one bullet jacket were recovered and prosecutors say preliminary ballistics tests have matched them to the rifle found in a 1998 Honda which is registered to Ortega-Hernandez and another person. Only Ortega-Hernandez's fingerprints were found on some ammunition magazines left in the car and his prints also were found inside the car, according to prosecutors. The government also said a Walmart receipt was found in the car from Ortega-Hernandez's stop there four hours before the shooting.
In a criminal complaint issued earlier, several unnamed witnesses were quoted as saying Ortega-Hernandez viewed Obama as "the devil" or the "anti-Christ." The Thursday filing includes a reference to a woman identified only as "Witness 10." She allegedly told investigators that Ortega thought he was "chosen" to "take care of" the president and that she thought that meant he wanted to kill Obama.
Investigators previously released little information on Ortega-Hernandez's movement from the night of the shooting at the White House until he was arrested five days later at a hotel in Pennsylvania. But in their Thursday court filing, prosecutors revealed that three days after the shooting, a former FBI photographer who takes pictures of trains as a hobby photographed a stowaway riding on a train near Shenandoah Junction, West Virginia, heading northwest. The photographer-- identified in the document as witness 18 --thought the man looked like Ortega-Hernandez and contacted law enforcement. Witnesses who knew Ortega-Hernandez later identified the man in the picture as him.
Prosecutors say the charge of attempting to assassinate the president is one of the most serious in the criminal code. In the Thursday filing, prosecutors say, "Ortega-Hernandez was deadly serious about eliminating the president and took many substantial steps toward achieving his end," including purchasing a rifle in March to making a 2,000-mile drive from Idaho to the East Coast in October.
Prosecutors argue that although Obama wasn't in Washington the night of the shooting, Ortega-Hernandez had a specific plan to hurt him.
"The tragedy that would have befallen the nation if Ortega-Hernandez had been successful is unspeakable," prosecutors said.
