Jimena remained a tropical storm Thursday afternoon, but was losing its punch as it remained nearly stationary over Mexico's Baja California, the National Hurricane Center said.
After making landfall on Baja California, Hurricane Jimena started weakening Wednesday night.
All tropical storm warnings on the Baja California peninsula were discontinued, but a tropical storm warning remained in effect for northwestern mainland Mexico, from Huatabampito to Bahia Kino. A tropical storm warning means conditions including winds of at least 39 mph are expected within 24 hours.
Jimena made landfall Wednesday afternoon as a Category 1 hurricane between Puerto San Andresito and San Juanico, Mexico, on the peninsula. At its peak, it was a Category 4 hurricane prior to making landfall.
But as of 2 p.m., Jimena's center was located about 35 miles (55 km) north of Santa Rosalia, Mexico, forecasters said, and was "moving very little during the past few hours." The storm was expected to begin slowly traveling west or west-southwest later Thursday night, and forecast to be near or over central Baja California through Saturday.
Jimena's maximum sustained winds were near 40 mph (65 kph) with higher gusts, forecasters said. "Weakening is forecast during the next 24 hours, and Jimena is forecast to become a tropical depression tonight and degenerate into a remnant low by Friday."  Watch Jimena skirt resort of Cabo San Lucas »
The storm was expected to produce an additional 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm) of rain over portions of western Mexico, and 1 to 2 inches (2 to 5 cm) over the central portion of the Baja peninsula over the next day or so, the Hurricane Center said. Overall, isolated maximum amounts could reach 30 inches (76 cm), forecasters said.  Watch damage caused by Jimena »
"An unofficial report from San Carlos, Mexico, located in Sonora state just west of Guyamas, indicates that about 25 inches of rain has fallen," forecasters said. "These rains could produce life-threatening flash floods and mudslides." Watch tourists who waited out the storm »
In addition, "higher than normal tide levels, with large and dangerous battering waves along portions of the coast of the central Baja peninsula and northwestern mainland Mexico will gradually subside tonight and tomorrow," the Hurricane Center said.
