(CNN)  -- Borussia Dortmund opened up a massive 10-point lead in the German Bundesliga with a 2-0 win at Nuremberg on Sunday, their 13th win from 15 games.
It gives Dortmund an excellent chance of claiming their first title in nine years, particularly with defending champions Bayern Munich struggling in seventh spot, fully 17 points behind the pacesetters.
Dortmund made light of a snow blizzard and a hard pitch as goals either side of halftime by Germany defender Mats Hummels and Poland striker Robert Lewandowski were enough for a comfortable victory.
It leaves them on 40 points with second-placed Mainz on 30 points. Mainz lost 2-1 to Eintracht Frankfurt on Saturday.
Coach Jurgen Klopp is trying to keep his young team grounded despite their big lead.
"I have never been able to, or even had to, consider the fight for the championship, so I don't think it is relevant with so much of the season left to play," he told AFP.
"It is more important we keep playing well. Every game is like a final for us, the next game is always the most important for me."
But even Bayern coach Louis van Gaal has all but conceded the championship.
"Lots might still happen but I think (Dortmund) are too far ahead," van Gaal told AFP after his side's disappointing 2-0 defeat at Schalke 04 on Saturday.
Bayer Leverkusen stay third after a 3-2 win over Cologne earlier Sunday to take them to 29 points.
Goals by Patrick Helmes, Swiss midfielder Tranquillo Barnetta and defender Stefan Reinartz sealed the win which leaves them just a point behind Mainz, who lost 2-1 to Eintracht Frankfurt on Saturday.
With two rounds to go before the midwinter break, Leverkusen will welcome the return of Germany star Michael Ballack from injury when the Bundesliga resumes in January.
In Spain's La Liga, Villarreal reclaimed third place with a 1-0 home win over Champions League rivals Sevilla.
Brazilian striker Nilmar scored his ninth league goal of the season after 29 minutes to leave his side seven points adrift of leaders Barcelona. Slumping Sevilla are 10 points further back after a third straight defeat.
