Glamorous tennis star Ana Ivanovic has reached the quarterfinals of the Generali Ladies Linz tournament -- despite being penalized a game for taking too long in the toilet.
The former world No. 1, who was given a wildcard entry into the Austrian event after the late withdrawal of the injured Serena Williams, had been leading 1-0 in the second set on Thursday when she needed to leave the court.
When she finally returned, the 22-year-old Serbian -- whose last tournament win came in Liz in 2008 -- discovered that her opponent Barbora Zahlavova Strycova had been awarded the next game of the second-round match.
"I'm really embarrassed because I had yogurt right before I walked on. Don't ever have yogurt before you have to play!" Ivanovic, among the sport's top earners despite her recent lack of form, explained at her later press conference.
"When I left the court I was really feeling sick. I said I really have to go to the bathroom and he [the umpire] said I couldn't go now before her serve, but I said I have to. Then he said I could go on my own time.
"When I came back he said for every 20 seconds I got a point penalty. He said I was gone a long time and it added up to a game. I was not sure about the rules and just had to keep on playing.
"I could not argue because he said that's how it is. It turned out to be good. I think I was so consumed with trying to feel a little bit better, but I think in normal circumstances it would make me really mad."
Ivanovic went on to triumph 6-3 6-2, and the seventh seed will next face Julia Gorges for a place in the semifinals.
The unseeded German upset fifth seed Petra Kvitova 6-2 6-1 as the 20-year-old Czech left-hander joined compatriot Strycova in exiting the tournament.
Second seed Daniela Hantuchova came back from 3-1 down in the first set to beat Spain's Carla Suarez Navarro and set up a quarterfinal with Patty Schnyder.
The Swiss left-hander shocked eighth-seeded Czech Klara Zakopalova 6-2 6-0.
Greek qualifier Eleni Daniilidou also made it through after defeating Austrian wildcard Sybille Bammer 6-1 7-6 (7-2), and she will next play German sixth seed Andrea Petkovic.
Meanwhile, third seed Shahar Peer reached the quarterfinals of the HP Japan Women's Open with a hard-fought 3-6 6-1 6-3 win over local player Ryoko Fuda in Osaka on Thursday.
The Israeli will next play Czech seventh seed Iveta Benesova, who defeated Italy's Alberta Brianti 6-1 7-5.
Japanese veteran Kimiko Date Krumm earned a clash with top seed Samantha Stosur as the 40-year-old beat compatriot Aiko Nakamura 6-2 6-0.
American Jill Craybas thrashed Ukraine's Olga Savchuk 6-1 6-1, and the 36-year-old will next play French second seed Marion Bartoli.
