Four southern California teenagers have been charged following the apparent drug overdose death of an 18-year-old high school quarterback whose father is a retired NFL player, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said Saturday.
Three of the teens have been charged with involuntary manslaughter in the death of Griffen Kramer, son of former pro quarterback Erik Kramer, who played for several NFL teams including the Chicago Bears and Detroit Lions, officials said.
Griffen Kramer played quarterback at Thousand Oaks High School, which lists him as a 6-foot 210-pound senior.
Kramer was found dead October 30 in a friend's bedroom in Agoura Hills, the sheriff's office said in a statement.
That friend, David Nemberg, 19, of Agoura Hills, is charged with involuntary manslaughter and possession of a controlled substance, authorities said.
After investigating several of Kramer's acquaintances who were involved in narcotics-related activities, police also charged Corey Baumann, 19, also of Agoura Hills, with involuntary manslaughter and possession of a controlled substance for sales, the sheriff's office said.
Baumann and Nemberg were each released in lieu of a $125,000 bail, authorities said.
The two other accused teenagers are minors, whose names weren't released, the sheriff's office said.
A 17-year-old boy from Oak Park, California, was charged with involuntary manslaughter and possession of a controlled substance, the sheriff's office said. He is being held at Sylmar Juvenile Hall without bail, authorities said.
Investigators found "deplorable" living conditions during the search of the boy's home and took five children from the residence into protective custody, said authorities.
The fourth teen, also a 17-year-old boy, of Agoura Hills, was charged with possession of a controlled substance, the sheriff's office said. He was released to his parents' custody, according to police.
Police allege Griffen, Nemberg and a juvenile met at Sumac Park in Agoura Hills on October 29 and drove to a nearby cul-de-sac, where Griffen injected narcotics, causing him to instantly become ill and unconscious, authorities said.
Nemberg allegedly dragged the unconscious Griffen into his car and then drove him around the area, police said.
Nemberg called acquaintances and asked them if he could drive to their residences, but they told him no because their parents were home, police said.
Nemberg allegedly took a still unconscious Griffen to Nemberg's home, authorities said.
He didn't seek medical attention for Griffen until the next morning, when Nemberg woke up and saw Griffen was still unconscious, authorities alleged.
"He woke up the following morning and called 911 because Griffen was unresponsive," Sheriff's Sgt. Barry Hall said in a statement.
Griffen was believed to have been dead for several hours before Nemberg made the call, according to the Los Angeles County coroner's office.
Investigators believe Griffen had likely died from an overdose, but "we're still waiting for a toxicology results to determine the ultimate cause of death," Hall said.
CNN's Michael Martinez contributed to this report.
