While anxiously awaiting the September 30 season premiere of "Homeland," you likely have a lot of remaining questions about season one: Will Carrie remember that Brody knew Issa? What happened to the Brody confession video? Why would someone eat peanut butter off a ruler? And of course: Did Jessica keep her hair short, the way Brody apparently "always liked it?"
Morena Baccarin, who plays military wife and mother Jessica Brody on the Emmy-nominated Showtime hit, is featured in the October issue of Esquire magazine. In the piece, writer Tom Chiarella calls Baccarin "the most beautiful woman in the world" (six times), but notes that the actress' hair "appears to be in transition, caught somewhere between Alien Queen and Weepy Soldier's Wife.
"What happened to the pixie cut she featured in her brief but epic run on the more recent resurrection of "V?" Chiarella asks.
Baccarin, 33, explained to "Esquire" that after having had "superlong" hair "forever," she took on a role that called for short hair and for years afterward volleyed between cutting it and wearing wigs. For the past four years, however, she's kept her locks super short -- in the pre-haircut "Homeland" episodes she's actually wearing a wig. Now, Baccarin said, she's "growing it out for 'Homeland'."
How We First Got to Know Morena Baccarin...
With entire online message boards devoted to Baccarin's hair, the consensus is this: the public is largely taken aback when a gorgeous woman sports a short haircut. In the December 2011 issue of Elle UK, actress Michelle Williams, who's worn a pixie-style cut for years, admitted "straight men across the board are not into this hair! I cut it for the one straight man who has ever liked short hair and I wear it in memorial of somebody who really loved it."
Williams' cropped tresses are a tribute to the late actor Heath Ledger, with whom she has a daughter, Matilda. Incidentally, Williams said that 6-year-old Matilda would love to see her mom with long hair.
Anne Hathaway's hair is currently in a pixie style, too, but she had to cut it in order to play Fantine, the terminally-ill prostitute who sells her hair in "Les Miserables." Hathaway told Kelly Ripa on "Live!" that the cut left her "inconsolable," reducing her to "mental patient-level crying."
What We Know About Homeland's Next Season
There are, of course, many beautiful actresses other than Baccarin, Williams and Hathaway who have successfully, if briefly, worn their hair short: Mia Farrow, Audrey Hepburn, Demi Moore, Winona Ryder and Emma Watson come to mind.
That's not to say that there hasn't been a fair share of short hair backlash either.
Remember when "Felicity" cut her hair short in season two of the eponymous college drama? If not, maybe you saw the ratings-fallout incident mentioned on "Six Feet Under," "Gilmore Girls," "30 Rock" or "Buffy the Vampire Slayer."
With Baccarin's Jessica Brody transitioning into the political wife role, it'll be interesting to see viewer reaction to her hairstyle.
What about you? How do you prefer Morena Baccarin/Jessica Brody's hair?
