After months of speculation and rumors, the Samsung Galaxy S III has finally been revealed, and yes it is more powerful that you could have ever imagined.
Likely to be one of "the" phones of the year, the new handset offers just about all the technology you could wish for in a smartphone.
There's the face recognition, the large screen, and plenty of other features that you'll be dying to show off to your friends and colleagues at every opportunity.
Read more: Samsung unveils Galaxy S III smartphone with face, voice recognition
For Samsung it means they truly have a flagship device that can be sung about from the top of the mountain. It's a device that has the power and capabilities to take on the iPhone 4S, the next iPhone, and pretty much any phone that comes out over the course of the rest of the year.
Things could change, but it's hard to imagine anyone aside from Apple with the capability to create a viable challenger to what Samsung has produced.
Great news, you might say. It will sell by the bucket load, and become the de-facto phone for all replacing the iPhone and all that get in its way.
Not so fast.
The problem the Samsung Galaxy S III will likely face, stopping it becoming the biggest-selling phone of the year, is that all this power, all this might, all this expertise, is likely to be too much for the people who just want a phone.
The iPhone is successful not because it features the best screen - it doesn't; not because it features the best design - it doesn't; and not because it uses any of the latest cutting technology - it doesn't do that either, but because it is the perfect phone for everyone.
Give the iPhone to a 5 year old and they'll be able to use it. Give the iPhone to a grandparent and they'll be able to use it. I am not so sure that can be said about the Samsung Galaxy S III and Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich.
There is no doubting that the features are impressive and the phone stunning in what it can do, and Samsung has created an amazing product.
Nine years ago, Samsung was making clamshell phones with small mono displays and 10-key dial-pads. Today it has made a phone that will be seen as a benchmark for manufacturers. Just think about that for a moment.
Of course having a phone for everyone doesn't need to matter for Samsung. Unlike Apple, Samsung creates and sells a range of different phones for different people in multiple sizes and shapes.
This is the phone for the flag bearers, this is the phone for the early adopters and what Samsung is hoping, will be the phone that its other customers will want to look up to, and eventually have.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Stuart Miles.
