Iran is lauding the successful test-firing of new missiles, including one designed to destroy "all types of enemy military equipment," state media said.
U.S. officials say they're paying close attention.
The Iranian Defense Ministry said the new missiles include a laser-guided surface-to-surface and air-to-surface missile as well as a new long-range ballistic missile that can carry multiple warheads, Iran's semi-official Fars news agency reported.
Iranian Defense Minister Brig. Gen. Hossein Dehqan said the long-range ballistic missile can evade enemies' anti-missile defense systems and has "the capability of destroying massive targets and destroying multiple targets."
Pentagon spokesman Adm. John Kirby said the agency has seen the reports.
"Iran's missile program continues to pose a dangerous threat to region, and is an issue we monitor closely," he said.
Kirby noted that U.N. Security Council Resolution 1929 prohibits Iran from undertaking any activity related to ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons, including launches using ballistic missile technology.
Iran's missiles testing comes just days after Iranian warships reportedly were en route toward U.S. maritime borders, according to Fars.
"Iran's military fleet is approaching the United States' maritime borders, and this move has a message," Iranian navy Adm. Afshin Rezayee Haddad said, according to Fars.
The plan, Fars reported Saturday, serves as a response to the United States beefing up its naval presence in the Persian Gulf. The U.S. 5th Fleet is based in Bahrain.
But a U.S. military official said there was no operational information to support the claim.
The timing of Iran's missile testing is notable for another reason: Fars said it happened on Monday, the eve of the 35th anniversary of the 1979 Islamic Revolution. The revolution signified the end of Iran's Western-backed monarchy under Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi and the beginning of an Islamic republic.
On Tuesday, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani delivered a speech celebrating the revolution -- and slamming the United States.
"The revolution started because people didn't want to accept humiliation," Rouhani told his country. "Is it possible for the great revolutionary people, it is possible for this nation to accept humiliation by foreign powers or America after 35 years? It is as if they have not recognized the great nation of Iran. They don't have the right understanding and knowledge of the Iranian people."
Iran's navy aims to make PR splash with voyage
CNN's Saad Abedine, Jim Sciutto, Barbara Starr and Hamdi Alkhshali contributed to this report.
