Legendary India batsman Sachin Tendulkar created yet another piece of cricket history on Tuesday, becoming the first player to score 15,000 Test match runs.
Tendulkar reached the milestone with a single on day three of the first Test between India and West Indies in Delhi. The right-hander, known as the "Little Master", finished the day 33 not out on 15,005 career runs.
After making his debut for India against Pakistan in November 1989, Tendulkar became Test cricket's leading run-scorer in 2008 when he surpassed West Indies' batsman Brian Lara's total of 11,953.
The 38-year-old will be hoping to pass another landmark figure in the final two days of the Delhi contest and become the first player to score 100 centuries in international cricket.
The Mumbai native scored his 99th international 100 against South Africa at this year's World Cup, which hosts India won for the second time in the tournament's 36-year history.
India finished day three on 152-2, needing 124 runs to overhaul the West Indies' two-innings total of 484 and clinch victory in the opening match of the three-Test series.
Debutant Ravichandran Ashwin was the host's star performer, taking six wickets for 47 runs to match the second-best performance from an Indian bowler in their debut Test match.
India will resume on Wednesday with Tendulkar at the crease alongside Rahul Dravid, who is the second-highest run-scorer in the history on Test cricket on 12,859.
Meanwhile, another cricket legend announced his return to the sport on Tuesday, with former Australian spin-bowler Shane Warne coming out of retirement to play in the country's Twenty20 league.
Warne took 708 Test wickets during a 15-year career before initially retiring from cricket in 2007, only to return to play for the Rajasthan Royals in the Indian Premier League (IPL) in 2008. Sri Lanka's Muttiah Muralitharan is the only bowler to have taken more Test wickets than Warne with 800.
Warne will play for the Melbourne Stars in the eight-team Big Bash League which is set to get underway next month.
"This is something that I'm passionate about, it's something that I think is unique to Australian cricket, it's city-based cricket teams, it's something new and that's what sort of enticed me," the 42-year-old told Cricket Australia's website.
"More to get involved with Cricket Australia, to put something back into the game, to help out Whitey (Stars captain Cameron White), Shippy (Stars coach Greg Shipperd), all the young kids that are there to pass on my knowledge to them."
The right-armer also denied his return to the game was motivated by money.
"It's got nothing to do with money," insisted Warne. "If it was something to do with money about me coming out to play cricket I'd still be playing in the IPL."
Stars president Eddie McGuire revealed the Melbourne Cricket Ground-based team had initially approached Warne to make two guest appearances for the side, before he agreed to play for the whole campaign.
"This was sincere," said McGuire. "We were happy to pay the money for two games and we're very happy to pay for the full eight (matches)."
Warne will make his first appearance for Melbourne against Sydney Thunder on December 17.
