(CNN Student News) -- August 22, 2014
It's a "miraculous day," according to an American doctor who survived the Ebola virus. We'll update you on his condition and what doctors say about his release from the hospital. Today's show also explains how a grand jury and legal complications factor in to an incident in Ferguson, Missouri. And some of Britain's historic statues have been given a new voice. Go there with CNN Student News!
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWS QUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly News Quiz (PDF).
1. The Mosul Dam is located in what Middle Eastern country?
2. What is the name of wind system that blows from the southwest during summer months and brings tremendous amounts of rain to India?
3. The world's largest experiment involving "smart trash cans" is being conducted in what U.S. city?
4. Pope Francis recently became the first pontiff in 25 years to visit what Asian country?
5. What is the brand of the car that recently made auction history when it sold for more than $38 million?
6. Until his death in 2013, what controversial leader served as president of Venezuela?
7. Which of these organisms would you find in the phylum Cnidaria: octopi, seaweed, sharks or jellyfish?
8. What city in the United Arab Emirates is home to the tallest building in the world?
9. Dr. Kent Brantley and Nancy Writebol are two U.S. missionaries who've recovered from what deadly virus?
10. In what European city is technology being used to give the public information about statuesque figures?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
