(Southern Living) -- For a heady dose of holiday spirit, dive into Opryland.
Fifteen miles of green garland and 10 miles of hand-tied red ribbon festoon the property.
I've heard that you can see the Great Wall of China from outer space. At Christmastime, I bet you can also see Gaylord Opryland. It sparkles with megawatts of lights, fun, and merriment. But you don't have to be shot into orbit to enjoy the view of this Nashville treasure. Make the easy drive to Middle Tennessee and delight in this perfectly luminous getaway.
The one must-see
Many holiday activities raise your spirits; one really promises to chill you out. Most of you have read or seen "How the Grinch Stole Christmas!" But you haven't had the ultimate Dr. Seuss experience until you meet the green grump carved in ice. Put on a parka -- loaned to you upon admission -- and enter ICE!, a frozen world located in the Gaslight Theater. The attraction will be back next year, but this is the last time you'll see the Grinch and Who-ville, carved by Chinese craftsmen from huge, brilliantly hued blocks of ice. There are even frigid sliding boards to try. Afterward, leave the 18-degree area, and grab a cup of hot chocolate in the adjoining gift shop. Are you smiling yet?
Special happenings
It's the 25th year the resort has provided a Santa's bagful of activities and entertainment. The decorations begin going up in July for A Country Christmas, and the festivities run from mid-November until the holidays end. During that time, enjoy delights such as carriage rides, photos with Santa, the Hall of Trees, and the Treasures for the Holidays Craft Show. Just admiring all the lights, poinsettias, and "faux-piaries" -- animal-shaped topiaries -- will get your inner Rudolph aglow. Southern Living: Tips from a repeat Oprylander
The Radio City Music Hall Rockettes high-kick from the Grand Ole Opry stage. Wear your Christmas sweater and jeans while you watch them -- everyone else does. For a memento of your visit, add glitter and sparkle to a fragrant miniature holiday house at Gingerbread Corner. Special events also include Louise Mandrell's "Joy to the World Christmas Dinner & Show," as well as a Winter Wonderland that includes a train ride for little ones. Near the hotel, board the General Jackson showboat for a dinner cruise on the Cumberland River. SouthernLiving.com: Hot Spots for the New Year
Dining and shopping
You have many options for meals in the huge Gaylord Opryland complex. For a fine-dining experience, try Old Hickory Steakhouse. Indulge in a rich lobster bisque, perfectly cooked filet mignon, and crème brûlée. Water's Edge Marketplace Buffet, located in the Delta Atrium, is a more casual venue. Graze among 60 different stations, filled with everything from pasta and salads to meats and vegetables. You can also grab a quick meal at Stax Burgers or Paisano's Pizzaria & Vino, both on the Delta Island.
For a nighttime dose of high-octane fun, go directly to the new Fuse nightclub, with rave reviews and visiting luminaries such as Kid Rock and Kim Kardashian. If you need festive duds, check out the shopping at Gaylord Opryland, such as Amelia's or Savannah's, both featuring dressy and casual women's clothing.
Opry Mills, the outlet mall just down the road, offers some of the best shopping opportunities, with winning Tennessee stores such as The Gibson Showcase and The Apple Barn Cider Bar & General Store. The Disney Store Outlet and Build-A-Bear Workshop also mesmerize, while standbys such as Nike, Gap Outlet, and Tommy Hilfiger Company Store are perennial favorites. The on-premises Rainforest Cafe or Johnny Rockets are ever popular refueling spots.
If you go ...
Gaylord Opryland Resort: www.gaylordhotels.com/gaylord-opryland or 1-888-999-6779. Special holiday packages, including accommodations and tickets to several attractions, begin at $335 for a two-night stay.
Try 2 FREE TRIAL issues of Southern Living - CLICK HERE !
Submit your favorite places to visit, stay, and dine in the South and enter to win a Caribbean Getaway - click here!
Copyright SOUTHERN LIVING Magazine. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
