(CNN Student News) -- September 20, 2013
How are opinion articles contributing to the rising tension between the U.S. and Russia? How are Starbucks customers responding to a request from the company's CEO? CNN Student News examines the answers, and we consider the looming possibility of a U.S. government shutdown. Plus, we meet a CNN Hero who aims to do "Sow Much Good," providing fresh produce to people in need.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What might be the pros and cons of a company taking a public stance on a political issue?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What is the name of the U.S. central banking system that's responsible for implementing monetary policies?
2. Which "Four Corners" state, established in 1912, is America's fifth-largest in size?
3. In what country did the Mount Sinabung volcano erupt?
4. In what eastern U.S. state were several businesses along a boardwalk burned by a fire last week?
5. What country experienced simultaneous flooding from Hurricane Ingrid and Tropical Storm Manuel?
6. What U.S. government agency was established in 1946 to fight the spread of malaria?
7. What is the name of the spacecraft that scientists say has reached the edge of the solar system?
8. In the U.S., on what date does Hispanic Heritage Month begin each year?
9. Who is known as the "Father of the U.S. Constitution"?
10. What is the name of the cruise ship that was righted this week near Giglio, Italy?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Charlotte, North Carolina; Washington, D.C.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
