With three days to go before the elections and polls showing him trailing, Republican presidential candidate John McCain appeared on NBC's late night comedy show "Saturday Night Live," poking good-natured fun at his campaign.
Sen. John McCain and his wife, Cindy, made guest appearances on "Saturday Night Live."
The Arizona senator appeared in the opening skit, next to former cast member Tina Fey reprising her role as his running mate, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin.
"This past Wednesday, Barack Obama purchased airtime on three major networks," he said in the first skit. "We, however, can only afford QVC (the television home shopping network)."
Later, McCain -- who delivered his lines with a smile on his face -- took another shot at his own expense.
"Look, would I rather be on three major networks? Of course," he said. "But I'm a true maverick -- a Republican without money."  Watch McCain and Fey appear on "Saturday Night Live" »
Throughout the skit, McCain and Fey hawked campaign memorabilia such as a set of knives that cuts through pork, and a jewelry collection that McCain's wife, Cindy, held up.   Watch Cindy McCain discuss her "SNL" appearance »
He dubbed the latter "McCain Fine Gold," a play on the name of the campaign reform act that he sponsored with Russ Feingold, a Democratic senator from Wisconsin.
McCain also took humorous potshots at his Democratic rival, Illinois Sen. Barack Obama, and his vice-presidential pick, Delaware Sen. Joe Biden.
McCain pointed to a set of 10 commemorative plates that he said celebrates the 10 town hall meetings he would have had with Obama.
"They are blank," he said. "He wouldn't agree to those debates."
Obama had rejected McCain's proposal for the joint town hall meetings. The two participated in one such appearance as part of the three presidential debates.
As for Biden, the SNL skit had Fey hawking a set of "Joe" action figures: Joe the Plumber, Joe Six-Pack and Joe Biden.
The plumber reference was meant to invoke the now-famous Samuel Joseph Wurzelbacher, who McCain has held up as a small business owner who will see his taxes rise if Obama wins the presidency. Joe Six-Pack is a term Palin has used to describe a regular American.
Fey, as Palin, pointed to the Joe Biden doll and said, "If you pull this cord, he talks for 45 minutes." McCain added, "It's great if you want to clear out a party."
The skit ended with the senator delivering the signature line that opens the show every weekend: "Live from New York, it's Saturday Night." iReport.com: Palin talks equality with iReporter
McCain also joined cast member Seth Meyers in the "Weekend Update" segment, where he unveiled radical last-minute campaign strategies he was considering.
Among them was the 'Reverse Maverick' ("that's where I do whatever anybody tells me"), the 'Double Maverick' ("that's where I go totally berserk or just freak everybody out, even the regular mavericks") and the "Sad Grandpa."
"That's where I get on TV and go, 'Come on, Obama's gonna have plenty of chances to be president. It's my turn,'" he said.
McCain has made two previous appearances on the show, which airs Saturday nights on NBC.
The program, which has drawn attention for its political skits this year, garnered its highest rating in 14 seasons two weeks ago when Palin made an appearance.
Obama canceled an appearance in September as a result of Hurricane Ike, but he appeared on the show in November 2007, making an unannounced cameo during an opening skit about a Halloween party at the house of New York Sen. Hillary Clinton, Obama's rival during the Democratic primary.
