Look here for news updates on the situation in Iran on the 31st anniversary of the Islamic revolution. (The first timestamp is Iranian time, three and 1/2 hours ahead of GMT)
3:05 a.m., Friday (6:35 p.m. ET, Thursday) CNN reporter Ivan Watson reports on "The Situation Room" that "ordinary activists" have described feeling "demoralized and disappointed" that there weren't as many protesters in the streets as they had hoped. Watson also reported that there was confusion among protesters about where to march and when to hold signs aloft.
1:30 a.m., Friday (5 p.m. ET, Thursday) About 30 protesters in Sweden threw rocks, snow and ice at police outside the Iranian Embassy on Stockholm's Lidingo island. At least one officer was hit in the head, said police spokesman Ulf Lindgren. In New York, protesters covered their mouths with black tape and held signs: "United Nations take action on Iran." Solidarity protests also occurred in Paris, France, and in Berlin, Germany.
12:55 a.m., Friday (4:25 p.m. ET, Thursday) Reports still coming in of what happened earlier in Iran: A university student told a prominent writer that many protestors were afraid to show their support for fear of backlash.
"A sense of confusion and, even anger, prevailed among the supporters of the Green Movement," the student said. "It was hard to distinguish the supporters of the government for the protesters. Most protesters did not take out their green signs. We were mixed with everyone else. I felt very frustrated. Did we go to the protest to increase the number of the pro-government people?"
The student added that many people seemed more interested in taking things from the government booths that were set up for free milk, juice, food and bags.
11:56 p.m. (3:26 p.m. ET) -- CNN's Reza Sayah spoke to Mohammad-Taghi Karrubi, the son of opposition leader Mehdi Karrubi, earlier Thursday. He says tear gas was used on them during protests. Watch video
11:55 p.m. (3:25 p.m. ET) -- New video surfaces: Watch YouTube video of apparent protests in Isfahan, Iran, located 340 km south of Tehran. The city is the second most populated metro area in Iran.
11:55 p.m. (3:25 p.m. ET) -- New video surfaces: Watch YouTube video apparently showing hundreds of riot police on the streets of Tehran.
10:12 p.m. (1:42 p.m. ET) -- New video surfaces: Watch YouTube video apparently showing opposition leader Mehdi Karrubi with protesters in Tehran.
8:37 p.m. (12:07 p.m. ET) -- Witness tells CNN the government was "really successful in keeping things separated. They got what they wanted, a disruption free rally." He added: "There's kind of a lot of disheartened people who were expecting more."
8:11 p.m. (11:41 a.m. ET) -- New video surfaces: Watch YouTube video allegedly showing tear gas fired in Tehran.
6:48 p.m. (10:18 a.m. ET) -- New video surfaces: Watch YouTube video showing what appears to be an Iranian regime motorbike burning
6:48 p.m. (10:18 a.m. ET) -- New video surfaces: Watch iReport video of opposition supporters in Azadi Square, central Tehran.
11:55 p.m. (3:25 p.m. ET) -- New video surfaces: Watch YouTube video apparently showing hundreds of riot police on the streets of Tehran.
6:23 p.m. (9:53 a.m. ET) -- Opposition Web sites report the wife of opposition leader Mir Hossein Moussavi was punched and hit with batons. Her Facebook page reports a similar incident.
6:18 p.m. (9:48 a.m. ET) -- New video surfaces: Watch YouTube video that apparently shows a uniformed man punching a shirtless man.
4:38 p.m. (8:08 a.m. ET) -- New video surfaces: Watch YouTube video of protesters apparently stamping on posters of Iranian leaders.
3:30 p.m. (7:00 a.m. ET) -- Mohammad-Taghi Karrubi, the son of opposition leader Mehdi Karrubi tells CNN: "We are completely disappointed at the behavior of the state today. At the same time we are hoping the situation will be changed and the people who are in power will change their behavior."
He adds that his brother, Mehdi Karrubi's other son, Ali Karrubi was arrested at the scene of Karrubi's attack.
3:18 p.m. (6:48 a.m. ET) -- New video surfaces: Watch YouTube video of purported protests in Iran.
3:06 p.m. (6:36 a.m. ET) -- Source says most major squares quiet with the exception of large number of security forces.
3:00 p.m. (6:30 a.m. ET) -- An Iranian state-run Press TV anchor reports: "A few hundred supporters of Iran's defeated presidential candidates have rallied in the capital Tehran. Supporters of Mir Houssain Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi gathered in a Western Tehran district. Police had stepped up security in the area to prevent possible disturbances. Defeated presidential candidate Mehdi Karrubi was seen among the protesters."
1:45 p.m. (5:15 a.m. ET) --Opposition groups claim they're being prevented from reaching the square by security forces.
1:01 p.m. (4:13 a.m. ET) -- Some protesters are chanting "Down with Dictator."
12:11 p.m. (3:41 a.m. ET) -- Ahmadinejad ends speech with cheers from crowd.
11:59 a.m. (3:29 a.m. ET) -- Ahmadinejad says Iran has succeeded in producing its first batch of uranium enriched to 20 percent and can enrich it up to 80 percent, but it won't. Iran says it needs the enriched uranium to treat the country's cancer patients.
11:54 a.m. (3:24 a.m. ET) -- There are reports that opposition leader Mehdi Karrubi was supposed to meet with supporters, but his car was attacked. The Basij militia broke a window in the car that Karrubi was riding, the Web site Raheh Sabz said.
Plainclothed security forces also attacked former president and reformist leader Mohammad Khatami's vehicle as he headed to Azadi Square.
The forces used tear gas and batons to attack Khatami's supporters, forcing him to abort a plan to walk to the square with followers, the Raheh Sabz Web site said.
Two reformist figures, Mohammad Reza Khatami -- the brother of the former president with a similar name -- and his wife, Zahra Eshraghi, were arrested.
CNN was not able to independently confirm the opposition reports.
11:33 a.m. (3:03 a.m. ET) -- Ahmadinejihad defends country's nuclear program, maintains it is being used for peaceful purposes.
Follow CNN's coverage of Iran
11:29 a.m. (2:59 a.m. ET) -- Protests from opposition have been sparse during Ahmadinejad's address.
11:25 a.m. (2:55 a.m. ET) --Ahmadinejihad praises Iran's progress, citing technological achievements in particular, its space program.
11:13 a.m. (2:43 a.m. ET) -- Ahmadinejihad says the West wants to control the Middle East. "There are those who stand against us because what they want is to -- control the Middle East and to control the world," he said. "And an independent Iran, a free Iran, a developed Iran, a powerful Iran will naturally be a challenge for their goal."
11:00 a.m. (2:30 a.m. ET) -- Ahmadinejad addresses the crowd, discusses the country's importance in the region. He also lauds Islamic Revolution.
10:56 a.m. (2:26 a.m. ET) -- International journalists have been told by the Iranian government that they can report only on Ahmadinejad's speech. They are not allowed to report on developments on the streets, according to opposition Web site, Jaras.
10:33 a.m. (2:03 a.m. ET) -- Loudspeakers have been set up throughout the area to carry Ahmadinejad's speech in hopes of drowning out any potential disruptive protests.
10:32 a.m. (2:02 a.m. ET) -- A witness tells CNN that he has never seen so many Basij militia in the area.
10:11 a.m. (1:41 a.m. ET) -- Iranian TV says Ahmadinejad has arrived at Azadi Square for speech.
9:41 a.m (1:11 a.m. ET) -- Crowds of flag-waving pro-government supporters arrive at Azadi, or Freedom, Square in central Tehran for a planned speech by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
8:31 a.m. (12:01 ET) -- Iranians are today marking the 31st anniversary of the Islamic revolution that overthrew the shah.
