Defending champion Andy Roddick advanced to the quarterfinals of the season-opening Brisbane International in Australia with a 6-4 6-1 triumph over Ukrainian Alexandr Dolgopolov on Wednesday.
The 28-year-old recovered from an early break of serve to record his straight-sets victory in 56 minutes. The second seed will now face Cypriot Marcos Baghdatis in the last eight.
World number eight Roddick was pleased with his performance and his ability to execute his game plan at the Pat Rafter Arena.
"The scouting report was that he [Dolgopolov] was aggressive to the point of psychosis at times," Roddick told the ATP World Tour's official website.
What were the top tennis moments of 2010?
"It was my plan to make him have to come up with those kinds of shots for the better part of a couple of hours and it caught up to him a little bit. Then when it caught up to him it got away from him pretty quickly."
Baghdatis eased past Polish opponent Lukasz Kubot 6-2 6-2 to set up his meeting with the 2003 U.S. Open champion Roddick.
American fourth seed Mardy Fish was beaten 6-3 6-1 by Radek Stepanek. The Czech, who won the title in 2009, will next face German seventh seed Florian Mayer.
In the women's draw, fourth seed Marion Bartoli earned a place in the quarterfinals with a 6-1 3-6 6-0 defeat of Czech Iveta Benesova.
Bartoli, who is the highest seeded player left in the draw, will next play Barbora Zahlavova Strycova of the Czech Republic.
Elsewhere, John Isner earned a 7-6 4-6 6-4 success against Potito Starace to help edge the U.S. one step closer to the Hopman Cup final after a 2-1 win over Italy in Group B.
Bethanie Mattek-Sands gave the American team a 1-0 lead in Perth, with a win over world number seven Francesca Schiavone before the 25-year-old Isner secured an unassailable lead for the pairing.
Italy did manage to clinch the final rubber with a 6-7 (5-7) 6-2 10-3  victory in the mixed doubles, winning the match tie-break to keep alive their hopes alive.
The U.S. now need to win two rubbers in their match against Britain's Andy Murray and Laura Robson to guarantee their participation in Saturday's final.
"We're in the driver's seat right now," Isner, ranked 32 in the world, told the Hopman Cup website. "But nothing's set in stone that's for sure.
"I know Great Britain is good and France is still good and everybody is still alive so we can't let up any. Hopefully we'll get out of our group and go into the final."
France bounced back from Monday's 3-0 defeat by the U.S. to beat Britain 2-1 with a 6-4 6-2 victory in the decisive doubles.
Kristina Mladenovic beat 16-year-old Laura Robson 6-4 3-6 6-0, but world No. 4 Andy Murray leveled the tie with a 7-6 (7-3) 7-6 (7-5) win over Nicolas Mahut before the French gave the UK duo a second successive reverse this week.
In New Zealand, top seeds Maria Sharapova and Yanina Wickmayer moved into the quarterfinals of the Auckland Classic, but No. 3 Svetlana Kuznetsova, Elena Vesnina, Sofia Arvidsson and Carla Suarez Navarro all crashed out.
Russia's Sharapova will next play Hungary's Greta Arn and defending champion Wickmayer of Belgium faces Romania's Simona Halep, but both were taken to three sets.
Halep went through when seventh seed Vesnina withdrew due to illness, while fellow Russian Kuznetsova was beaten 2-6 6-4 6-4 by China's Peng Shuai.
Arn saved five match-points before defeating eighth seed Arvidsson 4-6 7-5 7-5, while No. 9 Suarez Navarro was upset 7-6 (7-5) 6-1 by 18-year-old British qualifier Heather Watson.
