Bayern Munich wrapped up the Bundesliga title in record time on Tuesday night with a 3-1 win over Hertha Berlin at the Olympic Stadium.
After being crowned champions with six games to spare last season, the Bavarians have gone one better this year, winning with seven still left to play.
Bayern were 2-0 up within the first 15 minutes -- Toni Kroos netting in the sixth minute with Mario Goetze heading a second eight minutes later -- and looked to be coasting to a 24th Bundesliga title.
Hertha did pull a goal back as Colombian striker Adrian Ramos netted a 66th-minute penalty, but when Franck Ribery came off the bench to score a third with 11 minutes remaining the celebrations for Bayern's traveling fans could begin.
Pep Guardiola's side have now won their last 19 league games and have 77 points from 27 matches -- 25 points more than second place Borussia Dortmund with only 21 points now available from the remaining seven matches.
"I am just happy we have finally managed it," Guardiola said. "It didn't matter when we got it just as long as we won the title for this great club."
The Spanish manager, who steered Barcelona to three consecutive La Liga titles, has built on the foundations laid by former coach Jupp Heynckes who guided Bayern to the treble (Bundesliga, DFB Cup and Champions League) last season.
Tuesday's win also sees Bayern extend their unbeaten run of league matches to 52 -- their last loss was against Bayer Leverkusen on October 28th 2012.
"It's unbelievable to clinch the title on the back of an unbeaten record," said winger Arjen Robben.
"We're all unbelievably proud of the team and our achievements this season."
Guardiola's team still have plenty to play for with not just a Champions League title to defend -- they play Manchester United in the first leg of the quarterfinals on April 1 -- but more league records to try and break before the season finishes.
Bayern need 15 points to overhaul last year's record haul of 91 league points and win five of their last seven matches to better the mark of most wins (29, set last year) in a season.
Elsewhere in the Bundesliga on Tuesday, second-place Borussia Dortmund drew 0-0 with third-place Schalke while Braunschweig beat Mainz 3 - 1. Wolfsburg were also 3-1 winners against Werder Bremen.
Read more: Derby delight for Man City
