It looks like New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady underestimated Buffalo when he took a jab at the upstate New York city's hotels Wednesday.
The insult came as Brady was praising his father, Tom Brady Sr., for his dedication to his son's career. The elder Brady travels all over the country to watch his son play.
"I don't know if any of you guys have ever been to the hotels in Buffalo, but they're not the nicest places in the world," the younger Brady said.
Brady has apologized for insulting the area's lodging options during a pre-Super Bowl press conference, according to The Buffalo News.
But not before the city's hotels and tourism officials went on the offensive.
"Tom Brady comes to Buffalo once a year, and to pass judgment like that I think is just irresponsible at best," Bryan Drew, general manager of Embassy Suites, told CNN affiliate WIVB. "We've got some great hotels, especially here downtown."
The local tourism organization, Visit Buffalo Niagara, also took issue with Brady's slam.
"Buffalo Niagara is filled with excellent hotel options to meet the needs of the most refined travelers," said Ed Healy, vice president of marketing. "P.S. - go Giants!"
Healy mentioned the historic Roycroft Inn in East Aurora and The Mansion on Delaware Avenue as examples of the area's upscale properties.
The Mansion's owner, Geno Principe, offered Brady and his family a free night at the hotel in response to the dig at Buffalo.
Buffalo News sports columnist Jerry Sullivan spoke with Brady about the offer from the elite hotel.
"I appreciate that," Brady responded, then said, "I apologize for saying that."
The offer of a free night wasn't the most popular move among some of the posters on The Mansion's Facebook page.
"Tom Brady, a free night? Why? He's an insulting, pompous (fill in the blank)," wrote Kathy Dembek-Licata.
The Mansion said on its Facebook page that it's "having a bit of fun" with the incident, using it to promote the Buffalo area. "Tom Brady is an exceptional athlete and, much like the Patriots, The Mansion also strives for excellence!"
