Dominik Paris sped to victory in the first World Cup downhill of the men's season at Lake Louise in Canada on Saturday.
The 24-year-old Italian crossed the finish line in one minute, 49.90 seconds to bag his first win of the season with Austrian Klaus Kroell finishing just 0.03 seconds behind in second. Adrien Theaux from France finished 0.11 seconds behind Paris to take third place.
"I am very happy but it has been a difficult run for me," Paris said afterwards. "The middle section of the course was really bumpy but I am glad I figured out a way to keep pushing.
"It's a great way to start the season and now all I can hope is that I keep skiing like this in the next races and once the Olympics in February come around we will see how things go," he added.
Veteran racer Kroell, who won the World Cup downhill title in 2012 and finished second last year, was satisfied with second place.
"It was such a tight race," said the 33-year-old.
"It always seems to be tight when I'm on the podium. I can't say I like it, it would have been better to be at the front of those few hundreds but it was a good race and I am happy to start with a podium."
Bode Miller was the highest placed American in 16th, 1.38 seconds off Paris' pace with compatriot Steven Nyman finishing down in 19th a further 0.26 seconds back.
Meanwhile across the border at Beaver Creek, Colorado, Switzerland's Lara Gut continued her brilliant start to Olympic season with a win at the World Cup Super-G event.
Read more: Gut claims first GS title
The 22-year-old, who won the first women's downhill race of the season on Friday, finished in a time of one minute 18.42 seconds with Austria's Anna Fenninger taking second place 0.92 seconds behind with compatriot Nicole Hosp finishing third.
Fenninger and Hosp's teammate Elisabeth Goergl had originally finished second but was later disqualified for using the wrong width of skis.
Last season's overall women's champion Tina Maze finished in 14th place, while Leanne Smith was the highest ranked American skier finishing 23rd.
"Everything is going so fast when you're skiing super-G, so I can't really remember what happened," said Gut who will look to complete a clean sweep of wins at Beaver Creek in Sunday's giant slalom.
"I just tried to push on every gate, because it's a really challenging course ... maybe I was pushing a bit too hard."
One woman who isn't pushing too hard just yet is Lindsey Vonn who delighted her fans on Thursday when she revealed on Facebook that she was back on the slopes following a fall in training earlier this month.
"First day back on snow since my crash and it was awesome!" Vonn said.
"I'm very thankful for many things this year (family, loved ones, great fans) but at this moment I'm happy to be on the mountain doing what I love -- skiing!! Happy thanksgiving everyone!"
It was feared that the latest setback to the knee which required surgery and a lengthy layoff earlier this year would almost certainly rule Vonn out of defending her Olympic downhill title in Sochi.
But the 29-year-old's prompt return to training has raised the prospect of a far quicker return to competition, possibly next weekend as the women head to Lake Louise.
Read more: Lindsey Vonn enjoys Thanksgiving back on the slopes
Gallery: Shining a brilliant light on Norway's frozen waterfalls
