Amal Alamuddin may have just accomplished what many believed was the impossible: snagging Hollywood's most notable bachelor.
The Lebanese-born British beauty married George Clooney who many thought could never be tied down.
Not a lot is known about Alamuddin, who is said to have started dating the actor in October 2013 and became engaged in April 2014. But here is what we do know:
1. She's a well-respected attorney.
Alamuddin's profile on the site The Legal 500 says she "specialises in international law, human rights, criminal law and extradition." Some of her clients have included the Royal Court of Bahrain and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange.
"She is also part of the legal team representing the government of Cambodia in a case involving a territorial dispute with Thailand at the International Court of Justice in The Hague," the site says. "She has previously worked as a legal adviser to judges at the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and as senior legal adviser to the prosecutor of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon."
2. Clooney isn't the only one who finds her attractive.
She was named one of the 21 hottest female barristers in London on the blog "Your Barrister Boyfriend."
The blog states: "Amal Alamuddin may make some feel inadequate because she has achieved the seemingly unattainable ideal of contemporary femininity: She is both breathtakingly beautiful and formidably successful."
3. She's a world traveler.
In addition to being fluent in both Arabic and French, Alamuddin has traveled widely. Her time in the United States included graduating from the New York University School of Law, and among her trips is a safari to Tanzania she reportedly took with Clooney in March.
4. She's discreet.
Alamuddin, 36, hasn't been speaking out about her relationship with the 53-year-old star. She has not given extensive interviews and People magazine reported on their wedding based on brief comments from Clooney and guests at the ceremony.
5. Alamuddin must be special.
There's no debating this one. Clooney, who was married from 1989 until 1993 to "No Strings Attached" actress Talia Balsam, has long been outspoken about the fact that he has had no desire to wed again. In a recent Esquire interview, Clooney said, "I haven't had aspirations in that way, ever," about becoming a husband and father. He has proved that by dating his fair share of women over the years but not settling down.
6. Her co-workers are happy for her.
Alamuddin may not be talking, but her law firm has spilled the beans. The Doughty Street law firm was clearly excited about the news and released a statement that read in part: "The barristers and staff of Doughty Street Chambers offer their best wishes and congratulations to Ms Amal Alamuddin, a member of Chambers, and Mr George Clooney on their engagement to be married."
