Diego Milito scored two second half goals as Inter brought an abrupt end to Juventus' 49-match unbeaten run in Serie A with a 3-1 win in Turin Saturday.
The Argentina international striker snapped his goal drought against Juve with a coolly taken penalty and then scored the second when Gianlugi Buffon could only parry out a shot by substitute Freddy Guarin.
Rodrigo Palacio grabbed a late cinching third to leave Juve stunned after the home side had taken the lead straight from the kick off through Chilean Arturo Vidal.
They maintained the advantage and might have added to it during a high-quality first half, but Inter stepped up their game after the break.
They have moved to within a point of Juventus at the top of the Italian standings with the pivotal victory.
Juve's Angelo Alessio, standing in for Antonio Conte while the coach sits out a lengthy touchline ban, was left disappointed by their defeat.
"Unfortunately we lost after 49 games, but Inter took their chances and we didn't. It doesn't matter that it was Inter who did this -- we played well and had several chances to double our lead in the first half," he told Sky Sport Italia.
Barcelona stayed on top of La Liga with a hard-fought 3-1 win over Celta Vigo in the Camp Nou to take their record to nine victories and a draw, their best start to a Spanish season.
Adriano Correia put Barca ahead after 21 minutes before Mario Bermejo quickly leveled for the visitors.
David Villa quickly restored the lead for the leaders and a Jordi Alba goal secured the three points in the second half.
Barcelona's arch-rivals and reigning champions Real Madrid kept pace with a 4-0 win over Real Zaragoza but they remained eight points adrift of the leaders.
Gonzalo Higuain and Angel Maria struck within two minutes in the first half with Michael Essien and Luka Modric adding late efforts after the break.
Second-placed Atletico Madrid lost 2-0 to Valencia in the late game to fall three points behind Barca.
Roberto Soldado and Nelson Valdez scored the goals to inflict a first defeat of the season on Atletico.
In the Bundesliga, Bayern Munich increased their advantage to seven points with a 3-0 win at Hamburg while second-placed Schalke 04 suffered a shock 3-2 defeat at Hoffenheim.
Bayern were coming off their shock 2-1 home defeat to Bayer Leverkusen last Sunday but showed no ill effects as Germany midfielders Bastian Schweinsteiger, Thomas Mueller and Toni Kroos all scored in an easy victory.
Schalke looked to have salvaged a point when Japan international defender Atsuto Uchida grabbed a late equalizer to make it 2-2, but substitute Sven Schipplock struck for the home side in the first minute of added time to sink the Royal Blues.
Eintracht Frankfurt remained third after their 1-1 draw with Guerth Fuerth Friday while defending champions Borussia Dortmund stayed fourth after they were held to a goalless draw by VfB Stuttgart.
Dortmund captain Sebastian Kehl is an injury doubt for Tuesday's key Champions League clash at Real Madrid after he broke his nose..
