February 4, 2014
Subjects covered on CNN Student News this Tuesday include the U.S. stock market, the Federal Reserve, and immigration reform. We also jump back into history with a bit of Olympic trivia, and we show you what the future holds for some female ski jumpers.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What sources would you consult to learn more about the factors that impact the stock market?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.   volatility
2.   the Federal Reserve
3.   ski jumping
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1.  How would you describe the performance of the U.S. stock market so far this year?  According to the video, what are some of the reasons behind that performance?
2.  Who is Janet Yellen?  To what office was she recently confirmed?
3.  According to the video, what signs could indicate that there might be room for a compromise between Democrats and Republicans on the issue of immigration?
4.  What sport did Jessica Jerome start participating in at age 7?  According to the report, why were women not allowed to compete in this sport on the Olympic level until this year?  Explain how women's ski jumping became an Olympic sport.
Discussion Questions:
1.  What is meant by the term "emerging markets"?  Explain how what's happening with economies in those markets might ultimately affect the U.S. stock market.
2.  What do you know about the Federal Reserve and its role in the U.S. economy?  Why do you think that the policies pursued by its chairperson can have an impact on the stock market?
3.  What is meant by the term "undocumented immigrant"?  Based on what you saw and heard in the report, what primary point separates Democrats and Republicans on the issue of undocumented immigrants?  In your opinion, what action, if any, should be taken with regard to undocumented immigrants?  Explain.
4.  Are there any sports you'd like to see in the Winter Olympics that aren't currently part of the Games?  Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
