A 36-year-old Atlanta woman whose body was found last month most likely died from exposure to cold, officials said Tuesday.
The death of Stacey Nicole English, last seen alive shortly after Christmas, was classified an accident by the Fulton County Medical Examiner, which cited autopsy results, medical records and witness and acquaintance statements.
Investigators used dental records to identify the remains found January 23 in a wooded area in southwest Atlanta. English's abandoned car was discovered in late December, with the motor running.
In a statement, the office said "the most likely cause of death is cold exposure (hypothermia) complicating underlying neurological and psychiatric disorders." An autopsy indicated no injuries and toxicology results showed no evidence of a drug overdose.
"Because cold exposure is an external, environmental condition, the manner of death has been classified as accident," medical examiners said.
A St. Louis man who had stayed with her December 24-26, said English was "acting peculiar and out of character" during the stay, adding that "she began screaming in the apartment and shouting biblical scriptures and indicating that the world was coming to an end," a police report said.
He said that he left around 10:30 p.m. on December 26, after English "began asking him if he was Satan" and told him to leave "her residence immediately."
A friend, Michelle Strothers, told police that she last saw English on that day or the next one. In an interview with police on New Year's Eve, Strothers said that her friend "appeared upset" and told her "she felt as if someone was attempting to hurt her."
Earlier, English's mother and stepfather told police that they typically talked with her "several times a week" and became worried after she did not answer their calls since they last talked with her on Christmas.
Her mother, Cynthia Jamison, said that English "was currently taking medication" and had attempted suicide by overdose a little more than two years earlier, according to police.
All six Fulton medical examiners participated in a peer review, the medical examiner's office said.
Atlanta police later Tuesday said they were closing the case, with no further statement planned.
