Attorneys for one of the victims Jerry Sandusky was convicted of abusing have released two voice mails that they say the former coach left on their client's phone just prior to his 2011 arrest -- potential fodder for a civil lawsuit they now plan to file against Penn State and others.
The recordings are allegedly among "numerous voice mails" unearthed during an investigation, and were left on the phone of a person identified as Victim 2, attorneys with the firm Ross Feller Casey said in a statement Thursday.
CNN cannot independently verify the recordings after listening to them posted on the attorneys' website. The group would not elaborate on how many voice mails were uncovered.
Penn State board member resigns over Sandusky scandal
They are dated September 12 and September 19, 2011, less than two months before Sandusky was arrested on sex abuse charges.
Both messages end with the words "love you" to the victim.
In a message dated September 19, the former coach apparently says he's "just calling to see -- you know -- whether you had any interest in going to the Penn State game this Saturday."
"As these messages indicate, Sandusky was attempting to exert control over our client even as his arrest for child sexual abuse became imminent," the statement said.
In 2001, then-graduate assistant Mike McQueary testified that he told his university superiors he saw Sandusky abusing Victim 2, then a minor, in a Penn State shower room.
The firm also announced Thursday that it intends to file a civil lawsuit against "Penn State University and others and to hold them accountable for the egregious and reckless conduct that facilitated the horrific abuse our client suffered."
Penn State insurer seeks to deny coverage
Penn State spokesman David La Torre responded to the announcement Thursday by saying the school "takes these cases very seriously, but cannot otherwise comment on pending litigation."
"President Erickson and the Board of Trustees have publicly emphasized that their goal is to find solutions that rest on the principle of justice for the victims," he said.
Karl Rominger, Sandusky's attorney, said that the defense had expected "people coming out of the woodwork with accusations."
"Victim 2's identity was known to the defense and the prosecution prior to trial and the statements that the individual gave to an FBI trained investigator who worked for the defense team contradicted what he's now claiming," he said.
"We had already talked to Victim 2, which we mentioned at the presser at the preliminary hearing, and he told (defense attorney) Joe Amendola that nothing had happened."
Sandusky, who has maintained his innocence, was convicted in June for abusing young boys over a 15-year-period.
The Ross Feller Casey firm currently represents other Sandusky abuse victims, including Victim 3, Victim 7 and Victim 10.
Opinion: Was the NCAA too quick to punish Penn State?
Ousted Penn State president blasts report, says he was abused as a child
Penn State hit with $60 million fine
CNN's Laura Dolan contributed to this report.
