Ex-Germany international Jens Lehmann is set to make a sensational return to English club Arsenal ten months after announcing his retirement from soccer.
Manager Arsene Wenger confirmed the 41-year-old has re-signed for the title-chasing Gunners on a rolling monthly contract three years after leaving for Stuttgart.
Lehmann, who made 199 appearances for Arsenal between 2003 and 2008, also represented Germany on 61 occasions before retiring in May 2010.
He was part of Arsenal's 'Invincibles' side who went through the entire 2003-04 season unbeaten as they secured the English Premier League title.
Wenger insisted it was a good move for the club, who have been knocked out of three competitions in the last three weeks, given injuries to Wojciech Szczesny, Vito Mannone and Lukasz Fabianski.
He told reporters: "Lehmann is training with us and will sign for the rest of the season.
"We have no cover in the Premier League, so that is why I decided to bring Jens back. I'm happy because when Jens is in training he is as motivated as ever.
"If he has to play, if I choose to play him, his huge motivational level will be vitally important."
Lehmann told the club's website: "I'm very excited to be rejoining Arsenal. I have kept myself fit since the end of last season and I'm ready to contribute at any time for the team.
"I have many great memories from my previous time at the club and Arsenal has always had a place in my heart. It's special to be coming back."
Lehmann enjoyed a notoriously fractious relationship with Arsenal's current number one goalkeeper, Spaniard Manuel Almunia, with several of their disagreements spilling over into the public arena.
Lehmann lost his place to Almunia in 2007 with the German calling it "humiliating." He told German television: "To be sitting on the bench behind somebody who only started to play when he was 30 is not funny. I am very angry."
Almunia responded by telling British newspaper The Guardian: "To have someone here who hates me is just amazing."
But despite the history of acrimony between the pair, Wenger insisted Lehmann's arrival would not be a problem as Arsenal try to overhaul Manchester United's three point lead at the top of the Premier League.
He added: "There has been much more said about that relationship than what happened. There is a lot of respect between the two goalkeepers.
"I think Jens Lehmann will get the best out of Almunia, because he will show him every day he is ready to fight for his place -- as he has always been. Almunia will be motivated by that."
