It's hard to believe it's been five years since Mumbai was rocked by terror attacks. Life goes on, the city continues its chaotic beat. The next news story replaces the last one, the cycle of life goes on.
The date 26/11 is now a somber anniversary the city marks. But for many, it's something much more personal. The newspapers here today are full of pictures of smiling couples and entire families who lost their lives during the attacks. They accompany messages of remembrance in ads placed their by surviving family members who miss them and grieve for them.
Ten Pakistani men associated with the terror group Lashkar-e-Tayyiba stormed buildings and killed 164 people. Nine of the gunmen were killed during the attacks, one survived. Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the lone surviving gunman, was executed in India last year
One of the pictures I saw in a newspaper today that froze me was of a broken blue wall inside Chabad House, the building where Rabbi Gavriel Holtzberg and his wife Rivka were killed. Their baby son, Moshe survived.
My colleague, Sanjiv Talreja and I were the first journalists allowed inside Chabad House a few weeks after the carnage. It was the hardest assignment I have ever had. The place hadn't been cleaned. Walls and windows were blown out, only half of the floors and ceilings remained. Blood stains splashed across the wall, grenade shells and bullets littered the crumbling floor.
One thing that stopped me in my tracks though was a broken blue wall. It was in the room that baby Moshe occupied. His mother Rivka had marked his height on the wall, with the enthusiasm of any young mother watching her baby grow. Several little pencil lines marked every inch or two this young boy grew.
I remember standing by this blue wall in 2008, overcome with emotion, unable to get the cries of Moshe wailing for his mother out of my head. I had seen and heard him at a service at a synagogue a few days earlier.
Moshe was saved by his Indian nanny, Sandra Samuel, who carried the boy through the gunfire and smoke to safety.
Nanny credited with tot's daring rescue
Moshe is with his grandparents and his nanny in Israel. I think of this young boy often and I think of the families who lost loved ones during the attacks. My thoughts are with those who suffered bullet wounds, burns, trauma and injuries during the siege.
Nanny who saved Israeli boy during Mumbai attack honored in Israel
Mumbai continues to throb. But every year, on 26/11, the city slows down a touch -- in remembrance and in solidarity.
Mumbai attack survivor: 'It's like a dead man living'
