Liverpool dumped Manchester United out of the English FA Cup with a dramatic late winner from Dirk Kuyt at Anfield on Saturday.
In their first meeting since the Luis Suarez/Patrice Evra race row erupted in October last year, it was Liverpool who gained the early advantage as Daniel Agger headed home from a corner in the 21st minute.
But United, who dominated possession in the first half, were back on level terms before the break as Park Ji-sung fired low past Jose Reina in the 39th minute.
A scrappy second half ensued with neither side looking likely to score before Kuyt latched on to a flick from Andy Carroll to drill home an 88th-minute winner in front of a delirious Kop.
The result capped a fine week for the Merseyside club as they eliminated both the blue and red sides of Manchester from English football's domestic cup competitions.
Chelsea kept their hopes of winning a seventh FA Cup alive with a 1-0 win at local rivals Queens Park Rangers -- a Juan Mata penalty in the 62nd minute proving decisive.
In the other all-Premier League ties, Bolton Wanderers came from behind to beat Swansea City 2-1 at the Reebok Stadium.
Luke Moore put the visitors ahead in the 43rd minute only to see former Swansea player Darren Pratley equalize moments later.
Bolton's winner came from Chris Eagles 10 minutes into the second period.
West Bromwich Albion couldn't make the most of home advantage though, losing 2-1 to Norwich City.
Grant Holt put the Canaries in front in the 34th minute with Marc Antoine-Fortune equalizing early on in the second half.
But Simeon Jackson made sure of Norwich having their name in the fifth round draw with a goal five minutes from the end.
Newcastle United won't be in the draw for the next round as they were beaten 1-0 by Championship side Brighton -- a Mike Williamson own goal in the 76th minute sending Gus Poyet's team through.
Goals from Cameron Jerome and Robert Huth ensured last year's finalists, Stoke City do progress to the next round as they beat Derby County 2-0.
In an all-Championship division tie, Millwall drew with Southampton, while a League One clash saw Stevenage beat Notts County 1-0.
Championship side Hull City were sent crashing out by Division Two side Crawley Town -- Matt Tubbs getting the deciding goal in the 57th minute.
Blackpool -- another Championship side -- drew 1-1 with League One's Sheffield Wednesday.
Birmingham City enjoyed a comfortable 4-0 win over Sheffield United, while Leicester City beat Swindon Town 2-0.
