Just a week ago Victor Dubuisson was little known aside from the most ardent golf fan, but then came victory in the Turkish Airlines Open, beating Tiger Woods and a clutch of big names and now the 23-year-old Frenchman is firmly in the hunt for an even bigger prize.
Saturday saw Dubuisson move to within one shot of leader Henrik Stenson at the World Tour Championship in Dubai with a stunning eight-under 64, including 11 birdies, one short of the European Tour record.
Dubuisson has carded 52 birdies in his last seven rounds of competitive golf and aims to carry on that form into the final day on the Earth Course at Jumeirah Golf Estates.
"I am very confident about tomorrow. I will try to do my best. And you know, sometimes it goes your way, sometimes not, but I will do the same as today and the first two rounds," he told gathered reporters.
"I'm very happy to play with Henrik tomorrow... he's a great guy and he's the best player of the year, so I'm very excited."
Swede Stenson, who can become the first man to win the European Tour's Race to Dubai and the FedEx Cup on the PGA Tour in the same season, knows he is in for a fight on the final day.
"Victor is playing incredible golf at the moment. I kept hearing that I was the hottest player in the world, but I think he's just jumped up and grabbed that title the last two weeks, winning last week and then shooting the score that he did today. "
Stenson is also being chased for overall honors by England's Ian Poulter, who carded a 66, but is four behind in third place.
He drew level with his Florida neighbor on the back nine of the third round, but Stenson finished with four birdies in the last five holes to open up a significant advantage as he closed with a 67 for 17-under overall.
"I caught him today and I'll catch him tomorrow, it's whether or not I can keep hold of him," Poulter told the official European Tour website.
A win for Poulter would mean Stenson would have to finish second to claim the Harry Vardon trophy, but the 37-year-old is not thinking that way.
"I am trying to avoid all that," he said.
"I know I can win The Race to Dubai even if I don't win here, but why not try my hardest to win this tournament? If I do I know that both trophies are coming home with me," he added.
U.S. Open champions present and past, Justin Rose and Graeme McDowell, can also still deny Stenson the title with victory in Dubai, but at 11 under and eight under after both shot rounds of 68, it is an unlikely permutation.
So can the man of the moment Dubuisson, but he would have to lift the trophy and see Stenson crumble to finish outside the top 30.
But he has moved into the top 50 in the world and made a strong start to claim a place in the European Ryder Cup team next year at Gleneagles.
