Portuguese coach Andre Villas-Boas was confirmed as the new manager of Chelsea Wednesday.
The 33-year-old will become the youngest manager in the English Premier League.
He moved to the west London giants after a payment of €15 million ($21.6 million) made to his former club Porto triggered a release clause in his contract.
Villas-Boas, who guided Porto to a treble last season, has signed a three-year contract at Stamford Bridge and will replace Italian coach Carlo Ancelotti, who was sacked in May.
"Chelsea football club is delighted to announce that Andre Villas-Boas will be the club's new manager," read a statement on the team's official website.
Could Villas-Boas succeed at Chelsea?
"His ambition, drive and determination matches that of Chelsea and we are confident Andre's leadership of the team will result in greater successes in major domestic and European competitions."
The former Academica coach worked as a scout for the four-time English champions under compatriot Jose Mourinho, who is now in charge of Real Madrid.
Mourinho -- like Villas-Boas -- guided Porto to a trio of domestic and European honors in 2003, before winning two Premier League titles, one FA Cup and two League Cups as Chelsea boss between 2004 and 2007.
Is Villas-Boas the new 'Special One'?
Turkey head coach Guus Hiddink had been linked with the vacant position after he enjoyed a successful temporary spell with Chelsea in 2009, but billionaire owner Roman Abramovich has opted for Villas-Boas.
Former AC Milan coach Ancelotti was dismissed after a trophy-less campaign saw Chelsea finish second in England's top division, despite delivering a league and FA Cup double the previous year.
Abramovich will hope Villas-Boas can secure Chelsea the European Champions League, an honor which has so far eluded the Russian since he gained control of the club in 2003.
Meanwhile, seven-time French champions Lyon announced the appointment Wednesday of Remi Garde as their new manager.
The former French international has been in charge of the club's youth set-up and replaces Claude Puel, who left Monday with a year left on his contract.
Garde was capped six times by his country and played for Lyon for nine years before moving on to Strasbourg and Arsenal in the English Premier League.
