It might not make up for losing the Wimbledon final but in his first meeting with Andy Murray since last July, Novak Djokovic got a slice of revenge.
The Serbian world No. 2 elbowed defending champion Murray out of the Miami Masters, but not without a spot of controversy.
Djokovic sealed a 7-5 6-3 victory with some trademark tennis but was given a helping hand by a debatable call towards the end of the first set.
Although the umpire allowed Djokovic's winner to stand, replays appeared to show the 26-year-old had reached over the net to play what proved a decisive volley.
Read more: Venus Williams has 'nothing to lose'
Murray questioned the call, speaking to both his opponent and the official before play continued, and Djokovic wrapped up the opening set 7-5.
The Briton defeated Djokovic in straight sets on his way to a second grand slam title at Wimbledon in 2013 and the Serbian repeated the feat in front of a sunkissed Miami crowd.
Although Murray earned a break to lead 3-2 in the second, Djokovic roared back to win the next four games and wrap up the match in 90 minutes.
Murray, who recently parted company with coach Ivan Lendl, showed signs of getting back to his best after a spell on the sidelines with a back injury.
As for Djokovic, he will face Japan's Kei Nishikori in the semifinals as he bids to win his second title of 2014, hot on the heels of his triumph at Indian Wells.
Nishikori upset Indian Wells finalist Roger Federer, coming from behind to triumph 3-6 7-5 6-4 against the two-time Miami champion.
In the women's draw, Dominika Cibulkova booked a likely place in the top-10 in the world rankings with a hard-fought 3-6 7-6 6-3 victory over Poland's Agnieszka Radwanska.
Cibulkova, from Slovakia, battled for two-and-a-half hours before finally sealing a semifinals clash with China's world No. 2 Li Na -- who beat former top-ranked Dane Caroline Wozniacki 7-5 7-5.
It will be a replay of January's Australian Open final, which Li won.
"This win really means a lot to me," Cibulkova said during an on-court interview after a win which should see her make a first ever appearance in the world's top 10 on Monday.
"It's always tough to play Aga, but I knew I just had to stay aggressive. If you make some mistakes with Aga you still have to stay aggressive.
"That's the way I play, and it's the only way to beat her. I just had to keep going."
"I knew before the match that this was the match I needed to win to become top 10," she added. "So it was some more pressure, but I'm obviously very happy with the way I handled it today."
Read more: Del Potro out for rest of 2014?
