Hunter Moore, once dubbed the "most hated man on the Internet" and the "Revenge Porn King," is free on bond after being indicted on felony charges including identity theft and conspiracy.
Moore, 27, the founder of a now-defunct "revenge porn" website is accused of hacking into people's e-mail accounts to steal nude photos to post online, federal authorities said this week.
On Friday, a judge released him on bond set at $100,000 and took his passport as collateral, according to a court document. Moore is to appear in court again on February 7.
He was released into the custody of his parents, who signed the bond, CNN affiliate KCRA reported. His release came with some conditions.
Moore is not to use a computer or get anyone else to do it for him. He must take down his social media accounts and get tested for drug use, KCRA reported.
Moore, who the FBI says operated isanyoneup.com, was arrested in Woodland, California, Thursday. Also arrested was Charles Evens, a 25-year-old man in Southern California believed to be connected to the scheme.
'You took the picture'
In 2012, way before this arrest, Moore talked to HLN's Dr. Drew about the website.
"The site was just born, actually," Moore said. "It was just a couple of friends and, you know, we had our hearts broken by a couple of girls, and we thought we would make a site. And it became Is Anyone Up. That's how it started. Of course. But when I did start the site, I was hurt, and so was my friends."
But later in the show Moore was confronted by a woman who called in and said she regretted taking topless photos for a boyfriend and was devastated when the pictures appeared online.
"I don't know how you can point your finger at me," Moore responded." You took the picture. I mean, I've been justifying this in my head for over a year and a half of the site. But at the end of the day, it started with you. You took these pictures."
Site got out of hand
The FBI says Moore and Evens conspired to peddle "hundreds" of nude pictures, without getting permission in 2011 and 2012. But, according to an indictment Moore allegedly pushed Evens to hack into computers to get more sexually explicit photos.
Moore then would pay Evens for the photos and then post them on the site, according to the FBI.
Both suspects are named in a 15-count indictment with charges that include aggravated identity theft and conspiracy.
If convicted, they face up to five years in federal prison for each conspiracy and hacking-related charge.
Moore actually shutdown the website in 2012 and sold it to an anti-bullying group.
"Taking down the site has been something I`ve wanted to do for months," Moore said. "It was just something I created that got out of hand. It was supposed to be for friends."
CNN's Mayra Cuevas contributed to this report.
