Lewis Hamilton was the fastest racer in the West as he won the United States Grand Prix to add fuel to his world title chances.
Flags and banners bearing his name waved under sunny skies at the circuit outside the Texan city of Austin -- and he did not disappoint the grandstands.
Hamilton daringly dived up the inside of Nico Rosberg on lap 24 to snatch the lead from his Mercedes teammate.
"Nico wasn't defending really and I almost caught him unaware, Hamilton later said of the maneuver. "There wasn't a moment in the race when I didn't think I could get him."
The victory was Hamilton's 10th of the season and moved him 24 points clear of his fierce title rival with two races left to go.
But even if Hamilton wins next week's Brazilian Grand Prix just ahead of Rosberg, there is still a chance the 2008 champion will be denied a second title.
A new ruling for 2014 will see double points awarded at the last race in Abu Dhabi -- which means a win is worth 50 points instead of 25.
There were swirling suggestions in Austin that Mercedes are privately worried that a final twist of fate in this fierce title race lies ahead in the desert denouement.
Perhaps unsurprisingly though, Rosberg spoke favorably of the rule change. "For me it's great to hear because there's a definite shot at the championship," he said.
Elsewhere, Daniel Ricciardo -- the only driver other than the Mercedes duo to take the checkered flag this season -- finished third for Red Bull after another battling race in Austin.
"It wasn't boring out there," the Australian said. "We had good pace, we were strong. I'm really happy with the third -- I think it was the best we could do today.
But despite Ricciardo's excitement just 18 cars -- instead of the full complement of 22 -- lined up here on the Texan grid.
The Caterham and Marussia teams were forced to miss the race because of financial difficulties and have also dropped out of next week's Brazilian Grand Prix.
Caterham racer Marcus Ericsson chose to attend the U.S. Grand Prix anyway but he told CNN, "I was out racing with these guys a couple of weeks ago in Russia and now I'm not racing.
"It's disappointing and strange."
For others at the heart of Formula One, the race weekend was also clouded with concern over the sport's financial future.
Bernie Ecclestone, the sport's commercial rights holder, took the unusual step of holding a media conference at the Circuit of the Americas.
"We have to decide the best way to sort this whole thing out," said Ecclestone, who had earlier hinted the grid could shrink to 14 cars next season because of the growing costs of running an F1 team.
"Frankly, I know what's wrong but don't know how to fix it. No one is prepared to do anything about it because they can't."
Ecclestone was referring to the complex commercial agreement the teams have signed that binds them until 2020.
The sport's governing body, the FIA, issued a statement saying it was "in favor of any initiative that will help reduce costs in order to ensure the survival of the existing grid."
While there may be two races left to settle the 2014 world title and double points on offer come the finale, for the teams lower down the grid it may be a case of double or quits when it comes to their finances.
