Former NFL star Darren Sharper has been charged in another sexual assault case -- this time in Arizona.
A grand jury in Tempe indicted Sharper on two counts of sexual assault and three counts of administering dangerous drugs relating to an incident alleged to have happened on November 21, Tempe police said Wednesday.
Detectives served an attorney for Sharper with the indictment on Wednesday morning, police said.
Authorities have said Sharper, 38, is under investigation in four other states -- California, Louisiana, Nevada and Florida -- in cases of alleged sexual assault. So far, he has been charged only in California and Arizona.
New Orleans police have issued an arrest warrant for Sharper, who is in custody in Los Angeles and is scheduled to attend an extradition hearing Thursday.
Another man accused in the New Orleans case, Erik Nunez, was charged last week with two counts of aggravated rape and released on $400,000 bail Monday, CNN affiliate WVUE reported.
"I'm more than sure that when it's all said and done, he'll be vindicated," his attorney Jeffrey Smith told the station.
The application for the arrest warrant states that New Orleans detectives interviewed two women who said they were raped on September 23. The two accusers told police they were so impaired that they don't recall "the entirety of the sexual intercourse," and that they never agreed to have sex.
The document describes how a friend came to the apartment and saw Sharper in his underwear and Nunez exiting Sharper's bedroom in just his boxer shorts.
Police said through further investigation they found other witnesses who told them Sharper and Nunez admitted to sexual acts without the women's permission or knowledge.
In February, Sharper pleaded not guilty in a Los Angeles court to charges of rape by use of drugs, furnishing a controlled substance and possession of a controlled substance, all felonies. Those alleged rapes occurred in October 2013 and last month, authorities said. His attorneys said he maintains any sex was consensual.
In addition, a Florida woman last month filed a sexual battery complaint in Miami Beach against Sharper relating to a 2012 incident, a police report said.
According to the report, the woman was with two friends at a Miami Beach club in September or October 2012 when she met Sharper. The woman, her friends and another person went to Sharper's condo, where the woman claims the battery took place.
Miami Beach police are investigating the case, Miami Beach Detective Vivian Hernandez said last month.
Sharper played for the Green Bay Packers, Minnesota Vikings and New Orleans Saints from 1997 through the 2010 season. The five-time Pro Bowl player intercepted 63 passes in his career, tying for seventh all-time; and he is tied for second all-time in interceptions returned for touchdowns with 11, according to Pro-Football-Reference.com.
He was recently fired as an NFL Network analyst.
