An Indian politician accused in U.S. diplomatic cables of sending a private jet to fetch a pair of sandals denied the allegations on Tuesday and said WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange had gone "mad."
"I would request the government of his country to send him (Assange) to a mental asylum and if they have no space for him in his country we can put him in our mental hospital," Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Mayawati, who goes by one name, said at a rare news conference.
Mayawati's blistering response comes a day after a U.S. cable released on WikiLeaks alleged she was a "paranoid dictator" and that "when she needed new sandals, her private jet flew empty to Mumbai to retrieve her preferred brand."
"I have no information on when the plane was sent to Mumbai for bringing sandals as has been stated by a BJP (opposition party) leader, and it looks like he and the WikiLeaks owner had gone in the same plane," Mayawati said.
The Dalit (formerly "untouchable") leader is an icon for millions of low-caste Indians who were oppressed by upper caste Hindus for centuries.
As the U.S. diplomatic cable explained, "Dalits will remain with Mayawati regardless of poor governance, simply because the fact that one of their own is chief minister provides them heretofore unimaginable pride."
A member of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Mayawati became the first Dalit woman chief minister in 2007, winning elections in the country's most populous state by a majority.
The controversial leader has often been criticized for her extravagance in what is one of India's poorest states.
She has erected numerous enormous statues of herself across her state of Uttar Pradesh, spending more than a $1 billion dollars as a symbol of Dalit empowerment.
She is often congratulated with garlands made out of 1000 rupee or $20 bank notes at her political rallies.
And she's known to have a penchant for designer handbags.
But according to senior political journalist and co-author of Mayawati's autobiography Ajoy Bose, the self-glorification works for her constituency.
"That's the irony. In many ways, you find victim communities tend to look at larger-than-life leaders. Dalits are a particularly oppressed community, they were never even allowed to worship the same gods, so they never had their own icons. So she has very cleverly used this to her advantage. This is not just megalomania, it also plays well with her audience. And she is not just a whimsical autocrat, she is far too successful in politics to be dismissed as that."
On Tuesday, Mayawati rejected the allegations that she was "obsessed with becoming Prime Minister" saying they were "baseless" and indicative of "anti-Dalit mentality."
The scathing report titled "Portrait of a Lady" sent by U.S. diplomats in New Delhi quoted a local journalist's account of the "Dalit Queen" making a state minister do sit-ups as punishment for a minor error.
In a paragraph titled "Eccentric Paranoia," the U.S. cable reported Mayawati employs nine cooks (two to cook, the others to watch over them) and two food tasters.
The U.S cables cite "local journalists" and Mayawati's aide Satish Mishra as sources.
Mishra, a Parliament member who is also known as Mayawati's right hand man, is quoted in the cables of allegedly saying Mayawati has a "penchant for personal corruption" and a "strong authoritarian streak."
Mishra denied ever meeting a U.S. official in May 2007 (the time mentioned in the cables) and threatened to take legal action.
He told reporters on Tuesday, "there is definitely some conspiracy behind it because a 2007 event is being talked about ahead of the 2012 Uttar Pradesh elections."
Bose was also surprised by the cables.
"We all know she is pretty eccentric and pretty dictatorial and she can splurge, but as far as these specific allegations are concerned, the sourcing seems to be suspect," Bose said.
According to Bose, Mayawati has always been a very controversial leader, and for the urban middle classes who "dislike her intensely," the WikiLeaks reports just confirm what they already think.
As for whether these cables will affect Mayawati's political pull, Bose said: "She hasn't done that much for the Dalits, but when your leader is attacked by a class and caste which has been seen as the oppressor, then you automatically cling to your leader even more strongly, so all of this may actually be doing Mayawati a favor."
