A missing Fort Bragg, North Carolina, soldier may be in danger, police said Tuesday. The GI's sister tearfully called for her safe return.
Army Pfc. Kelli Bordeaux, 23, left a bar, Froggy Bottoms, early Saturday, Fayetteville police said in a news release.
The GI had been drinking and was given a ride home by a bar employee, according to a U.S. Army official who spoke on condition of anonymity.
At some point, Bordeaux sent two text messages, according to the Army official. One said, "got home safely." The official didn't know who the text was sent to or the contents of the other text.
Fayetteville police searched Bordeaux's apartment and vehicle, according to the Army official, who did not know where the vehicle was found. Bordeaux was reported missing Monday when she failed to report for duty, the official told CNN.
Older sister Olivia Cox said it was out of character for Bordeaux to miss work.
"Kelli is a good soldier," Cox told reporters Tuesday evening in Fayetteville. "Kelli is not a soldier who would go AWOL."
Cox, who declined to discuss anything related to Bordeaux's visit to the bar, said she doesn't know of anyone who would harm her sister.
Bordeaux's mother, Johnna Henson, said police told her an individual gave the young woman a ride to the bar, where she took part in karaoke.
Henson told HLN's Jane Velez-Mitchell that her daughter was "spooked" while someone was driving her home.
Bordeaux reportedly told the driver to let her out before she reached the apartment, Henson said.
Henson said she doesn't believe Bordeaux reached home.
Bordeaux is described as 5 feet tall, weighing 99 pounds, with blond hair and brown eyes. She was last seen wearing a pink halter top and black shorts, according to police.
Bordeaux lives off-post and is from St. Cloud, Florida, according to Jackie Thomas, a public affairs officer at Fort Bragg.
The soldier joined the Army in April 2011 and reported for duty at Fort Bragg in November, Thomas said. Bordeaux, a health service specialist, is assigned to the 601st Area Support Medical Company, 261st Multifunctional Medical Battalion, 44th Medical Brigade.
She had attended college, relatives said.
"She joined the military to make her family proud," said Cox. "She just wanted to have that future securely in place. She knew the military would do that."
Bordeaux and her civilian husband have been married two years, according to Cox.
The sisters last communicated on Friday.
"I texted her. And we laughed and joked and everything was happy," said Cox.
Detectives ask those with information to call the department at (910) 433-1856 or CrimeStoppers at (910) 483-TIPS (8477).
CNN's Larry Shaughnessy contributed to this report.
