(CNN Student News) -- October 31, 2014
Featured this Halloween on CNN Student News: Candidates in the upcoming U.S. midterm elections work to scare up some votes, fearless astronauts aboard the ISS describe day-to-day living, ghost stories abound at some Washington, D.C. landmarks, and we hand out some sweet facts about the October 31st holiday. There are neither tricks nor commercials on CNN Student News!
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. In what U.S. city would you find Bellevue Hospital, where an American doctor who contracted Ebola is being treated?
2. What is the largest stadium in the United Kingdom?
3. What was the intended destination of the spacecraft that exploded just after launching from a NASA facility in Virginia?
4. What country ended its combat mission in Afghanistan this week?
5. When daylight-saving time ends, most places in the U.S. switch back to what form of time?
6. What volcanic mass, located in Hawaii, is one of the most active volcanos on the planet?
7. What is the name of the virus that killed tens of millions of people worldwide in 1918?
8. What substance is the biggest factor in the price of gasoline, accounting for roughly 60 percent of the total cost?
9. What is the southernmost state in the U.S.?
10. Ed Smith was the athlete who once modeled for what American sporting award?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
