Sergio Aguero hopes to take Manchester City to another level, the Argentina striker revealed after completing his big-money move to the English club on Thursday.
Aguero, 23, has agreed a five-year contract after leaving Spanish club Atletico Madrid for an undisclosed fee. British media reported that the Premier League club had beaten the record paid by a British team of £32.5 million ($53 million) that City splashed out for Brazil forward Robinho in 2008.
Aguero, the son-in-law of Argentine football legend Diego Maradona, will reportedly earn a weekly wage of £200,000 ($327,000).
He joins a club seeking to build on last season, when Roberto Mancini's team finished third to qualify for the European Champions League for the first time and also won the FA Cup to end a 35-year wait for a trophy.
Aguero reveals City move on Twitter
"I think we are a team that in the future will be fighting every year to win major trophies, and let's hope that it's quite a few major trophies," Aguero told City's website.
Aguero, who played for Argentina at this month's Copa America in his homeland along with new clubmate Carlos Tevez, has missed City's pre-season tour of the United States.
"I don't think I'll have too many problems settling into the team," he said. "Once I'm out on the field I will get to know my way round, but I can't say that for sure because I have not even made my debut yet. But I'm sure everything will be fine. I'm going to be relaxed about it."
Nicknamed "Kun" after a Japanese cartoon character, he follows former Barcelona midfielder Yaya Toure and Valencia winger David Silva in moving to the Manchester side from Spain in the past year.
"They are great players, and yes I have played against them in the past but now they are here, in a team which right now is one of the biggest teams in England," he said.
"My style has always been to fight to the death for every ball, and give 100% in every game: be concentrated to the maximum in everything I do; movement, running off the ball, winning the ball back and scoring goals. I'm not a player who can do everything, but I still have plenty to offer."
With club captain Tevez unable to secure his desired exit from the club after his former team Corinthians of Brazil pulled out of a planned deal, it leaves City with a surplus of strikers -- and a ballooning wage bill despite the imminent financial fair play rules for European clubs.
Togo international Emmanuel Adebayor and Welshman Craig Bellamy are expected to leave ahead of the August 31 transfer deadline, with both out of first-team contention after being loaned out last season.
City won all three matches in the U.S. and now head to Ireland for the Dublin Super Cup, playing an Irish XI on Saturday and Italian club Inter Milan on Sunday.
Mancini's men take on local rivals Manchester United in the Community Shield on August 7, the traditional season curtain-raiser before the club's opening Premier League match at home to promoted Swansea on August 15.
Meanwhile, Spanish club Malaga have continued to spend heavily ahead of the new season with a deal for Villarreal winger Santi Cazorla worth a reported €22 million ($31 million) .
The Spain international, 26, has agreed a five-year contract to join a big influx of players at La Rosaleda.
His fee eclipsed the previous club record of €10 million paid for France midfielder Jeremy Toulalan, while coach Manuel Pellegrini has also brought in veteran Dutch striker Ruud van Nistelrooy, Diego Buonanotte, Isco, Nacho Monreal, Joris Mathijsen, Sergio Sanchez and Joaquin.
