Oliver Fisher was just a toddler his father noticed he possessed a natural talent with a plastic golf club. Now 20, he is one of the hottest prospects on the European circuit.
Oliver Fisher showed natural talent as a golfer early on. Now he has his sights set on his first Tour title.
"From the time he was two or three and started picking up plastic golf clubs he always had a very natural golf swing, so it was very easy to develop from that stage with proper coaching," Rupert Fisher told CNN.
CNN's Living Golf met Fisher and his parents at their family home just outside London for February's edition of Living Golf. See below for show times
They have shown tremendous support for their son's choice of career, ferrying him to and from tournaments and building a network of support to ensure he stands a good chance of being the best.
Their commitment is paying off. In 2005, at the age of 16, Fisher became the youngest player to take part in the Walker Cup -- the amateur team competition contested between the U.S. and the United Kingdom and Ireland.
Having won several tournaments as an amateur, including three straight Faldo Series titles, in 2006 he became the youngest Briton to earn a European Tour card. He's already recorded five top 10 Tour finishes but has yet to take a title.
"I know that I can do it. I know that if I'm in that situation I'm good enough to shoot the scores to win," he told CNN's Living Golf .
Fisher -- like so many modern golfers -- was introduced to the sport at a very young age, swinging a club for the first time aged just two, and joining his local golf club at the age of eight.  See photos from the Fisher family album »
In the model of another early starter -- Tiger Woods -- the young golfer has been surrounded by a system of support to encourage him to develop.
"Guys of Ollie's age have learnt so much from the Tiger era," his father Rupert Fisher explained. "When you look at players like Tiger, he is the ultimate role model and you can only try to do what they (his team) do."
Making the leap from amateur to pro can be a difficult step. As Rupert put it, "natural talent just won't get you there."
"It's totally different from (being) an amateur, because the season as a professional is a lot longer," Oliver said. "I definitely work as hard as a pro as I did when I was an amateur, just for the fact that I've got more time to work at (my game). It is better though, and I like it."
Though his first Tour win still eludes him, the Englishman announced his arrival in golf's top tier at last season's Open de Andalucia, where he recorded a winning 16 under par score of 272. Finishing tied with Frenchman Thomas Levet, Fisher was beaten into second place on the first hole of the playoff, but still earned plaudits as a player to watch.
Levet told reporters following the playoff: "He's one of the best guys I've played with, including Tiger Woods and Nick Faldo." Sky Sports golf expert Tim Barter said: "He is a young man who has got the whole package... and he will win golf tournaments." Fisher's coach Chris Jenkins told Sky Sports News: "I really do believe he can compete with Tiger and become world number one."
There is no denying he has a great deal to live up to, but it seems -- amid all this praise -- Fisher is managing to keep his feet on the ground, focusing on the next key goal: plying his trade on the European Tour and trying to win his first event.
"If I keep improving on the way I am hopefully I can be in the top 50 in the world and competing for Majors and winning tournaments in the next year or so."
Watch the full interview with Oliver Fisher in February's Living Golf at the times below.
ALL TIMES GMT Thursday, February 5: 1400, 1830 Saturday, February 7: 0800, 1830 Sunday, February 8: 0400, 0830, 1600
