Manchester City striker Mario Balotelli has been charged with violent conduct by the English Football Association after his apparent stamp on Tottenham midfielder Scott Parker during Sunday's 3-2 Premier League win.
Balotelli appeared to catch the side of Parker's head with his boot after the pair had clashed in the second half at the Etihad Stadium.
And to compound the misery for Spurs, Balotelli went on to score a last-minute penalty in the top-of-the-table clash, with his winner putting City eight points clear of third-placed Tottenham.
Manchester clubs sink London rivals to move clear at summit
An FA statement read: "The FA has today charged Manchester City forward Mario Balotelli with violent conduct following an incident in his side's home game against Tottenham Hotspur.
"Balotelli was involved in an incident with Tottenham's Scott Parker during Manchester City's 3-2 victory at the Etihad Stadium on Sunday 22 January 2012. Balotelli has until 6 p.m. on Wednesday 25 January 2012 to respond to the charge."
The incident angered Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp, who told reporters: "I don't like people kicking other people in the head on a football pitch.
"It is not something I understand. Why should he go and back-heel someone in the head when he is on the floor?"
Should Balotelli be found guilty, he will be banned for four matches because he has been sent off once already this season.
Balotelli would miss the Premier League trips to Everton and Aston Villa, plus the home encounter with Fulham and the second leg of the League Cup semifinal against Liverpool.
Controversy has dogged the Italian international since his move to Manchester in August 2010. He has already been sent off three times in a season-and-a-half at City and has been involved in a number of incidents both on and off the pitch that have publicly angered City manager Roberto Mancini.
However, one piece of good news for Mancini on Monday came with the confirmation that the FA has decided not to hand defender Joleon Lescott a violent conduct charge, after the England international appeared to catch Tottenham's Younes Kaboul in the face with his forearm during the same match.
