(CNN)Get ready, pop culture lovers; 2015 is about to blow your minds.
A new year means new stuff to count down to, obsess over and generally geek out about. From hotly anticipated films to celeb births, here are just a few things that we absolutely cannot wait for:
Marvel anything
TV shows, movies, action figures. Marvel already owns the new year with "Avengers: Age of Ultron" and "Ant-Man" hitting theaters in  the summer, ABC's "Marvel's Agent Carter" on the small screen in January and Netflix's "Marvel's A.K.A. Jessica Jones" later in 2015. It's a veritable superhero smorgasbord.
'Fifty Shades' - finally
We are super hot for the "Fifty Shades of Grey" film out in February (just in time for Valentine's Day). If the trailer is any indication, Dakota Johnson and Jamie Dornan as prim Anastasia Steele and billionaire Christian Grey bring the heat. Fans of the novel have been fiending for it.
Possible BeyJay album
After their megasuccessful "On the Run" tour and those breakup rumors that proved to be false, talk heated up that Beyonce and husband Jay Z are planning to drop a joint project. The pair haven't confirmed the chatter, but they haven't denied it, either. Fingers crossed!
'Funny Girl"'
Author Nick Hornby has delighted us with novels like "High Fidelity" and "About a Boy," so we have no doubts that "Funny Girl" will be a winner, too. The plot centers around a young sitcom star in 1960s Britain. The book is due out in February.
'Better Call Saul,' y'all
Face facts: "Breaking Bad" is not coming back. But the spinoff prequel, "Better Call Saul," will at least give us a dose of one of our favorite characters in the form of sleazy attorney Saul Goodman, played masterfully by Bob Odenkirk.
'Better Call Saul' gets a premiere date -- and a new teaser
The second royal baby
Look at how doggone cute that toddler Prince George is with his chubby, rosy cheeks. The world eagerly awaits the new baby Windsor. Duchess Catherine and Prince William have confirmed that baby No. 2 is due in April.
Oh, baby! Celebrities who are expecting
New tunes from the Red Hot Chili Peppers
If bassist Flea is to be believed, the Red Hot Chili Peppers' forthcoming album is going to make you move.
"It's cool," he told Rolling Stone of the project, which he hopes to debut in 2015. "It's super danceable, funky s**t and some real introspective, pretty stuff. It feels good, man, and it's fun to play it."
The return of Toni Morrison
The Nobel laureate will grace bookshelves with "God Help the Child," due in April. The novel about childhood trauma and a stunningly beautiful "blue-black" woman named Bride is already a must-read.
'American Crime Story: The People v. O.J. Simpson'
Pretty much everything Ryan Murphy touches for FX turns to gold, so it will be interesting to see how his miniseries fares. The cast includes Oscar winner Cuba Gooding Jr. as Simpson, "American Horror Story" vet Sarah Paulson as prosecuting attorney Marcia Clarke and "Friends" star David Schwimmer as defense attorney  Robert Kardashian.
Can you see Cuba Gooding Jr. playing O.J. Simpson?
'Star Wars: Episode VII'
There's a ton riding on "Star Wars: Episode VII - The Force Awakens" and plenty of time until it debuts in theaters in December to debate whether fans will love it or snub it. "Star Wars" creator George Lucas is reportedly less than excited to see what director J.J. Abrams does with the latest addition to the franchise.
