A Florida judge set bail at $15,000 Wednesday for a man who wrote a controversial book considered a "how-to" guide for pedophiles.
Phillip Greaves, who was arrested in Colorado on Monday, said the book, "The  Pedophile's Guide to Love and Pleasure: A Child-Lover's Code of  Conduct," can be used as a guide to rehabilitating pedophiles. And,  instead of teaching them how to avoid arrest, it teaches them to avoid  illegal actions, he said.
Greaves has been charged with the distribution of obscene  material depicting minors engaged in harmful conduct, Florida  authorities said. He made his first appearance in a Florida courtroom Wednesday afternoon.
His court appearance came a day after he held court in front of reporters explaining the nature of his book. Asked if he is a pedophile, Greaves said, "I only have sex with grown-ups."
He said he has no children and "I don't keep children around my house."
Polk County, Florida, Sheriff Grady Judd has said his detectives were able to establish jurisdiction in the case by conducting an undercover operation, buying the book through the mail.
Greaves protested Tuesday saying he is the target of entrapment, but Judd disagreed.
"He wrote this book, he published this book, he put it on Amazon to sell," Judd told reporters as Greaves was being booked into the Polk County Jail, "and he freely responded to our desire to purchase it."
Greaves and his book gained national attention earlier this year after Amazon.com defended selling the book on its website despite angry comments and threats of boycotts from thousands of people. The book was removed from the website in early November.
Officials said the book talks about safe sex and avoiding injury to children, grooming and preparing children for sex and teaching children how to lie to their parents.
Judd said Greaves' book outlines a "code of ethics" that shows pedophiles how to look for the most vulnerable children.
Greaves told reporters Tuesday he wrote the book to exorcise his own childhood. He said he was introduced to sex at the age of 7 by a 10-year-old friend and began having sex with other children. This continued, he said, until he was about 15, when he stopped and did not have sex again for years.
"Once I got into adolescence, I suppose you could have identified me as an adolescent pedophile," he said. But now, he said, he is an example of the fact that people can reform.
"I think all speech should be protected," Greaves said. But "I was not the one who solicited the material to be sent to Florida. I think Florida law is for Floridians and Colorado law is for Coloradoans."
He told reporters he will not be able to make bond: "I'm actually quite poor."
Judge John Kirkland said Wednesday in court that if Greaves does not post bail he must remain in Florida, cannot have contact with anyone younger than 18 and cannot have access to a computer.
CNN legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin said on CNN's "AC360" Monday night that prosecutors may have a hard time convicting Greaves, and maintained his arrest was unconstitutional.
"I don't think they can go forward because the book is clearly protected by the First Amendment," Toobin said. "This book, as awful as it is, it is only words."
Judd vehemently disagreed with Toobin's assessment of the case and the two sparred on the program.
"This has nothing to do with free speech and everything to do with obscenity," Judd said.  "We had a law in Florida that  applied. We only needed  jurisdiction."
