Serena Williams swept aside Anastasia Rodionova in her first match on American soil since the 2009 U.S. Open, as she recorded an emphatic 6-0 6-0 victory at the Bank of West Classic in Stanford, California.
Williams, 29, took just 47 minutes to defeat the Russian in only her third tournament back after nearly a year out of the sport following two foot operations and a blood clot in her lung.
The 13-time major winner, who has slumped to a career-low ranking of 169 in the world as a result of her prolonged absence, restricted her 29-year-old opponent to just five game points -- none of which Rodionova was able to convert.
"I wanted to be more consistent, and I think I did that tonight," the American told a post-match press conference.
"I feel good. I don't think of the match as being easy, I think it was just me being focused. I was out there just trying to do my best."
Williams was eliminated in the fourth round of Wimbledon in June, a grand slam she has won on four occasions, and she said her disappointing performance at the All England Club served as motivation to regain her best form.
"I didn't deserve a break after Wimbledon. I didn't practice on the plane ride back, that was about it. I want to get back to the top and win. I have no patience ... I really want to do well in the grand slams.
"But I've only played about seven matches since coming back -- it's still early on and I'm taking it one day at a time, one match at a time."
The Michigan native will now face Maria Kirilenko, who she defeated in the third round at Wimbledon, after the Russian upset the odds to eliminate sixth seed Julia Goerges.
Kirilenko, 24, broke her German opponent's serve six times on her way to a 6-2 6-3 triumph and she is anticipating a hard-fought match with Williams.
"She's always tough for me," said Kirilenko. "But I'm just going to try my best and hopefully do well. I hope we can show some good tennis."
Another seed to fall was Serb Ana Ivanovic, who was beaten 6-3 7-5 by Japanese number one Ayumi Morita.
Morita finished in style by winning the match's final 12 points and will face Urszula Radwanska in the last 16, after the Pole knocked out fellow qualifier Olga Savchuk 6-4 6-2.
Wimbledon semifinalist Sabine Lisicki is also into the next round courtesy of a 6-1 6-2 defeat of Simona Halep. The German will come up against fourth seed Samantha Stosur in the second round.
Also into round two are Slovakian Daniela Hantuchova and Marina Erakovic of New Zealand, who beat Rika Fujiwara and Sofia Arvidsson respectively.
