World number one Rafael Nadal has crashed out in the quarterfinals of the Queen's Club tournament in London, beaten in three sets by Frenchman Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.
Wimbledon champion Nadal, who flew straight to the grasscourt event on the back of winning a record-equalling sixth French Open title,  struggled for form throughout the week and was eventually sent tumbling 6-7 6-4 6-1 by fifth-seeded Tsonga.
Nadal admitted he felt 'exhausted' going into the tournament, but the result was still a major shock, with the Spaniard having reached seven successive finals prior to this defeat.
Nadal struggles past Stepanek to reach quarters
"After losing the second set, mentally I lost my concentration -- it has been a lot of matches in a row," Nadal told reporters.
"I am a little tired. I wasn't there like usual and certainly I think I need a little bit of break," he continued.
A delighted Tsonga added: "The first time I reached the world top 100 was here at Queen's and today I have beaten the world number one. It was close to my best tennis -- it has to be to beat Rafa."
Tsonga will now face unheralded wildcard Jamie Ward in the semifinals after the British number two, ranked 216th in the world, reached his first-ever ATP Tour semfinal with a 6-2 6-7 6-2 win over Frenchman Adrian Mannarino.
Meanwhile, Andy Roddick and Andy Murray will clash in the other semifinal after both players cruised through in completely different circumstances.
British No.1 and second seed Murray secured his place in the last four when scheduled opponent Marin Cilic of Croatia was forced to pull out of their quarterfinal with an ankle injury.
Ironically, Murray himself has been battling a similar problem, picked up in last week's French Open, and the Scot beat Janko Tipsarevic on Thursday with a brace attached to his damaged right ankle.
"I would have rather played today, and got another match on the grass. It wasn't to be," Murray told reporters.
"I just have to take this day as a rest day, which in some ways is probably a good thing," he added.
The extra day's rest could well prove crucial prior to Saturday's clash with third seed Roddick, who remains on course for a record fifth title on the London grass after crusing to a straight sets victory over seventh-seeded Spaniard Fernando Verdasco.
Six players have won four Queen's titles, including John McEnroe and Boris Becker, but Roddick will surpass them all if he carries on the form he showed in an impressive 6-2 6-2 win.
Meanwhile, holder Lleyton Hewitt is out of the Halle grasscourt tournament in Germany, beaten at the quarterfinal stage by local favorite Philipp Kohlschreiber.
Kohlschreiber reached the semifinals for the fourth time in his career, securing a 7-6 6-3 win in 90 minutes, smashing down 14 aces in the process.
He will now face third seed Gael Monfils, after the Frenchman beat Florian Mayer 6-4 6-4.
Another German, Philipp Petzschner, also secured his place with a 6-3 6-7 6-3 victory over eighth seed Milos Raonic.
The 27-year-old Petzschner will now meet 2007 Halle winner Tomas Berdych, the top seed after Roger Federer's withdrawal on Monday, who saw off fifth seed Viktor Troicki of Serbia 7-6 6-1.
