The father of a missing Oregon boy is asking that his estranged wife be held in contempt of court for violating a restraining order against her, court documents filed Monday show.
According to the documents filed in Multonamah County Circuit Court, Kaine Horman, the father of missing 7-year-old Kyron Horman, is alleging that Terri Horman leaked information from the sealed restraining order against her to Michael Cook, a high school classmate of her husband's.
The documents also allege that Terri Horman, Kyron's stepmother, began a sexual affair with Cook after her stepson's disappearance and that she attempted to "abduct" her daughter from Kaine Horman.
Kyron has been missing since June 4. Terri Horman is the last person known to have seen him before he disappeared. Authorities have asked anyone who was at Kyron's Portland elementary school that day if they saw Terri Horman after she told police she last saw him walking down the hall to his classroom.
Kaine Horman abruptly moved out of the family home in late June, taking the couple's 20-month-old daughter, Kiara, with him. He then filed for divorce from Terri Horman and was granted a restraining order June 28.
Portions of the restraining order were unsealed last week, however access to the address of Kaine Horman and Kiara remained restricted.
In the restraining order, Kaine Horman alleges his wife knows what happened to Kyron.
"I believe respondent is involved in the disappearance of my son Kyron who has been missing since June 4," Horman wrote in his request for the order. "I also recently learned that respondent attempted to hire someone to murder me. The police have provided me with probable cause to believe the above two statements to be true."
Monday's court documents allege that Terri Horman violated the restraining order's remaining restrictions by allowing Cook to photograph pages of the document, including Kaine Horman's address.
"The search of Mr. Cook's cell phone also revealed that a Google Maps search of the address was later performed by Mr. Cook," the documents say. "Mr. Cook told law enforcement when interviewed that he got the address from the paperwork, that he did an internet maps search for the address, but never went to (Kaine Horman's) listed residence."
The documents say Kaine Horman had requested restricted access to the address information because of "concerns about the investigation into the disappearance of his son, Kyron, and concerns about (Kaine Horman's) personal safety and the safety of his children."
Monday's documents also say law enforcement authorities told Kaine Horman's attorney that his wife's "relationship concerns and sexual overtures to Mr. Cook resemble those made to the man (that Terri Horman) previously attempted to hire to murder" her husband.
The alleged sexual relationship between Cook and Terri Horman began on or about June 30 after Kaine Horman had moved out of the family home, according to the documents.
Law enforcement said the pair began exchanging text messages that included "several photographs of (Terri Horman) in various stages of undress and graphic sexual activity," according to the documents.
The documents further allege that Terri Horman went by the gym where Kaine Horman works out "looking to 'abduct' her daughter, Kiara, from the gym daycare center," citing a gym employee.
CNN has reached out to Terri Horman's attorney and Cook for comment and is awaiting a response.
Cook told CNN affiliate KATU Monday that he had not seen the documents but said based on what he has heard about the contents that a lot of it is not true. He also told KATU he would not comment on the case until he consults an attorney.
Authorities have not named any suspect or person of interest in connection with Kyron's disappearance.
