Mexican author Carlos Fuentes, a prolific writer known for his novels and political commentary, died Tuesday. He was 83.
Fuentes had a massive hemorrhage overnight, said Dr. Arturo Ballesteros, his doctor. He died Tuesday afternoon, hours after arriving at the hospital.
"I deeply regret the passing of our beloved and admired Carlos Fuentes, writer and universal Mexican. May he rest in peace," Mexican President Felipe Calderon said in a Twitter post.
Mexico's national arts council described Fuentes as "one of the most prolific and recognized Mexican authors in the world." He won numerous literary awards throughout his career, including the Cervantes Prize. On Monday, Spain's University of the Balearic Islands awarded him an honorary doctorate for his literary work.
Fuentes, the son of a diplomat, was born in Panama and spent parts of his childhood in Argentina, Chile, Brazil and the United States.
As he received the Cervantes Prize in 1987, he described Mexico as "the country of my blood and also of my imagination."
His first novels, which included "The Most Transparent Region" in 1959 and "The Death of Artemio Cruz" in 1962, made him one of the most important figures of the so-called Latin American Boom of the 1960s and 1970s.
His 1985 novel "Old Gringo" was a bestseller in the United States. It became a movie in 1989 starring Gregory Peck and Jane Fonda.
"Carlos' influence on literature goes far beyond borders of Latin America, and the impact of his intellect and activism will not be forgotten," said Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, who presented Fuentes with a key to the city in 2006.
In a recent interview with Spain's El Pais newspaper, the author discussed his plans to write a new book.
"My technique for staying young is working a lot, and always having a pending project. Now I've finished a book, 'Federico on His Balcony,' but now I have a new one, 'The Dance of the Centenarian,' that I start to write Monday in Mexico," Fuentes said in the interview, which was published this week.
Fuentes, a former ambassador to France who became known as much for his political commentary as his literary prowess, regularly wrote columns for the Spanish newspaper and the Mexico daily Reforma.
On Tuesday, Reforma published a column by Fuentes titled "Long live socialism. But..." analyzing the recent election of Francois Hollande to France's presidency.
At the Buenos Aires Book Fair earlier this month, Fuentes spoke of the problem of drug trafficking in Latin America and criticized the candidates running for president in Mexico this year.
"What alarms me enormously this year ... is that I see problems here, and the candidates there," Fuentes told CNN en Español's Carmen Aristegui in January.
People we've lost in 2012: The lives they lived
CNN's Krupskaia Alis, Rey Rodriguez, Rafael Romo, Luis Arce and CNNMexico.com contributed to this report.
