(CNN Student News) -- May 13, 2014
From Africa to Europe, and from the prospect of "killer" robots to the repair of a historic obelisk, CNN Student News is bringing the world to your classroom. Today's show explores a development concerning kidnapped students in Nigeria, a recent vote in Ukraine, and the achievement of an American student who got her college degree shortly before her high school diploma.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What is a "feature" story? How is it different from the kind of story that usually appears first on a news website?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. secession
2. neural network
3. obelisk
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is Boko Haram? What is the group saying with regard to a potential release of the girls it kidnapped from a school in Chibok, Nigeria? How has Nigeria's government responded? What does the reporter say about the presence of Boko Haram in northern Nigeria? What did members of that group do to the school after they forced the students outside? What does the girl who is interviewed say about returning to school in Chibok?
2. What is one major issue dividing the people of Ukraine? According to one election official, what did the recent vote in the region of Donetsk reveal about part of the country seceding? How did officials from the U.S. and Europe react to this vote? How did Russian officials respond?
3. What are some things that robots are currently able to do? According to the report, how is machine technology currently being used to kill? Who is controlling these robots? What subject related to robot capability is the United Nations now discussing? What are neural networks? What question do these raise?
4. When was the Washington Monument completed? When did an earthquake cause damage to the monument that necessitated closing it down? What kind of damage did the monument sustain? Why did National Park Service officials send people to rappel down the sides of the monument? Where was the worst damage to the structure? When did the monument reopen?
5. What unique achievement can Grace Bush claim? Why is one reason why her parents encouraged her to do this? What was her GPA? What does she plan to do in the future?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that the United Nations is undertaking a debate about the future of robots? What do you think the future holds for this technology? Do you think there should be limits on robotic technology? If not, why not? If so, what should these limits be, and who should decide what they are?
2. Why do you think that landmarks and monuments are important to the history and culture of a nation? How do these things help to tell a nation's story? What information do they pass down to generations?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
