In a victory for whale conservationist group Sea Shepherd, Japan's government said Thursday it is considering canceling the whaling season.
If Japan does so, this would be the first time the country has canceled its whale hunt in the waters of the Antarctic since 2005, when it began a bitter battle with the animal rights group.
"In response to interference conducted by Sea Shepherd, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries has temporarily halted the whaling hunt in the Antarctic Ocean, considering the crew's safety as a first priority," Hiroshi Kawamura, an official in charge of research whaling, said on Thursday. "The ministry is considering what to do hereafter, but the total suspension of this season, which is scheduled to run until mid March, is included in the options."
Sea Shepherd's Capt. Paul Watson said that  the Japanese whalers have not left yet.
"As long as they're here, we'll be here," he said from his ship in the Antarctic.
Japan has left its fleet of four whaling vessels in the Antarctic, as it decides what to do about the winter hunt, according to the ministry.
The ministry announced Wednesday that it was temporarily halting its controversial whale hunting season, blaming the Sea Shepherd activists for impeding the hunt.
Japan annually hunts whales, despite a worldwide moratorium on whaling, under the auspices it is conducting scientific research. The moratorium allows the culling of whales for purposes of scientific research.
Critics call Japan's hunt a cover for commercial whaling, since the whale meat ends up in supermarkets and restaurants. Animal rights groups, from Greenpeace to Sea Shepherd, and the governments of Australia and New Zealand, have publicly condemned Japan's hunts.
Despite the condemnations, Japan continued to hunt whales.
Sea Shepherd activists in 2005 started a renegade battle in the high seas against Japan's whalers. They've had a number of high profile clashes, most notably last year, when one of Japan's whaling vessels collided with the Sea Shepherd's Ady Gil speedboat.
The captain of the Ady Gil, Paul Bethune, then snuck aboard the Japanese whaling vessel. Bethune, a New Zealand citizen, was arrested and tried in Japan. Bethune was convicted of assault, vandalism and three other charges but released on a suspended prison term.
Sea Shepherd's Paul Watson says seven years of chasing the Japanese whalers is beginning to pay off.
"Right from the beginning, our objective was to sink the Japanese whaling fleet economically, to bankrupt them. They're so far in debt right now, they're financially so strapped, even the Japanese government is saying, how much will we pump into this? It's a dying industry. It has no place in the 21st century. I think it's only a matter of time before they shut it down."
