The girlfriend of former NFL quarterback Steve McNair had grown frustrated with their relationship and was struggling with financial difficulties in the days before she killed him and herself in July.
Steve McNair, former NFL quarterback, was a married father of four when he was killed last summer.
Details of their relationship were revealed in a case summary released by Nashville police Monday.
McNair, 36, and Sahel Kazemi, 20, were found fatally shot in a condominium in downtown Nashville on July 4. Police have since ruled their deaths a murder-suicide.
"My life is just s--- and I should end it," Kazemi said the night before the couple were found dead, according to Sonya New, her shift manager at a Dave & Busters restaurant. New also said Kazemi was not her usual self and seemed down.
Though McNair was a married father of four, he was seeing Kazemi and at least one other woman, Leah Ignagni, according to Nashville police. McNair had spent the night at Ignagni's apartment on July 2, two nights before he was killed, Ignagni told police.
On the morning of July 4, Kazemi texted McNair, saying she was stressed and needed money to pay bills.
"Baby I might have a break down im so stressed," Kazemi said in one text message. "baby i might need to go to the hospital. baby whats wrong w(ith) me i can hardly breath(e)."
Chris Wall, who provided security for McNair and his family, told police he knew about McNair's relationship with Kazemi. McNair was tired of her calling when he was with his family, Wall said.
Kazemi continued to text McNair throughout the day, asking for money and when she could see him next.
"baby what are u doing," Kazemi asked.
"At the pool with the kids. I got the guy transferring the money," McNair replied.
At 4:04 p.m. on July 3, Kazemi said, "baby I have to be w(ith) u 2nite. I dnt care where." The messages continued for more than eight hours before McNair said he was on his way to the condo. He had told Kazemi earlier that he wouldn't leave the house "til the kids fall asleep."
McNair and Kazemi exchanged a final series of messages early July 4, when he asked her to leave the front door to the condo open for him.
A final message, sent at 1:14 a.m., simply said, "its open."
About 12 hours later, a friend of McNair's found their bodies.
