(CNN Student News) -- May 9 , 2014
People, places and things on today's show include Goodluck Jonathan and Kevin Durant, Australia and New Mexico, research drones and teacher appreciation. We'll explore the reasons and controversy for a government's shark-culling program, and we'll show you how technology is looking into New Mexico's archaeological past.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Who are some celebrities who have lent their support to a cause? Do you find some of these celebrity campaigns more effective than others? Explain.
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What holiday is an observance of the Battle of Puebla, not Mexican independence?
2. What country is home to the world's longest-reigning monarch?
3. What disease is transmitted by parasites found in the Anopheles gambiae mosquito?
4. In what West African country were more than 200 girls abducted by terrorists?
5. What model of spy plane recently triggered FAA computer problems in Los Angeles, California?
6. In what country did a recent hunting program lead to the capture of 172 sharks?
7. U.S. officials are concerned that what country is testing a long-range missile known as the KN-08?
8. What nation governed by Jacob Zuma held its first national elections since the death of Nelson Mandela?
9. What economic action was organized by some celebrities against the Beverly Hills Hotel in protest of the policies of the Sultan of Brunei?
10. Janet Yellen is the chairperson of what body known as the central bank of the U.S.?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
