A federal judge sentenced Colton Harris-Moore, whom authorities dubbed the Barefoot Bandit, to six-and-a-half years in prison on Friday for an infamous string of thefts and burglaries.
The federal sentence will run concurrently with his state imprisonment of seven years and three months imposed in December, the judge ruled.
The 20-year-old gained notoriety -- including 50,000 Facebook fans and a movie deal -- while leading authorities on a two-year manhunt while eluding capture in stolen boats, cars and planes, often while barefoot, authorities said. He once left chalk outlines of bare footprints at one crime scene.
Harris-Moore pleaded guilty last year to federal charges stealing an airplane, piloting it without a license, burglarizing a bank and possessing a firearm as a fugitive.
He also pleaded guilty in December to 33 state charges related to residential burglaries, identity thefts, a firearm theft, a car theft, attempting to elude a police vehicle and other offenses, according to court documents. He was sentenced to seven years and three months in prison on those charges.
Prosecutors recommended that Harris-Moore get 78 months in prison on the federal charges, according to court documents. Harris-Moore had asked for 70 months.
As part of the federal plea deal, he agreed to give up any profits that may come from book or movie deals on his story. His attorney has said Harris-Moore wants any such money to go to victims. He is estimated to owe more than $1.4 million in restitution in the federal case.
Under the Washington state plea arrangement, he would also have to give up any proceeds for restitution on the state offenses, court documents said.
He was arrested in July 2010 after crashing a stolen plane in the Bahamas and then trying to escape in a stolen boat. He'd been on the run from police since escaping from a Washington group home in 2008.
His attorney has said that his client hopes to go to college one day to study aviation or engineering.
CNN's Shawn Nottingham, Michael Martinez and Bill Mears contributed to this report.
