January 27, 2014
Today's international coverage kicks off in Egypt, where unrest abounds three years after the African country's revolution. We examine how corporate earnings and emerging markets are affecting the U.S. stock market, and we meet a Ugandan entrepreneur whose success is in the bag. Plus, a new survey fields American's opinions about their nation's most popular sport.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What challenges might reporters face when covering stories about global economies?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  Arab Spring
2.  emerging markets
3.  supply and demand
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1.  What took place in Egypt on January 25, 2011?  How did crowds in Tahrir Square observe the anniversary?
2.  What happened to the U.S. stock market last week? What were some reasons behind this action?
3.  According to the video: What are some factors that have led to the "emerging market flu"?  What are some things that investors consider when deciding whether to put their money into a country's economy or take it out?
4.  What kind of business does Andrew Mupuya own?  Why did he start this business?
Discussion Questions:
1.  What evidence from the video indicates that there are differing opinions on the outcome of Egypt's 2011 revolution?  How would you describe the current political situation in Egypt?
2.  Why do you think that a drop in stock markets or currencies in some countries might affect others? How might you use what is happening now with the world's emerging markets to explain the interconnectedness of the global economy?
3.  According to the video, what is the biggest challenge to Mupuya's business?  If you were an entrepreneur facing this challenge, what options might you have for addressing it?  Which one would you choose, and why?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
