If there was a predominant reaction to this voter's indecision, shared in "Young, Female and Undecided" on CNN two weeks ago, it was incredulity.
"The candidates have spent billions," I was told. "Their TV ads have replaced normal programming. This campaign has been longer than a life sentence. How can you still be undecided?"
To clarify, my indecision did not stem from an unrequited love for either candidate. I just could not bring myself to support either of these guys. A vote for Obama makes me a crazy, government-expanding liberal. I vote for Romney and I'm a crazy, masochistic female.
The truth is that voting for a candidate doesn't mean you stand united on every issue. This is not Build-a-Bear. I cannot create my own candidate, taking the best features from each then add a glowing heart and a soft, plush, huggable exterior.
Nevertheless, I have made a choice. I'm young, female and decided. Drumroll, please...
I'm voting for Mitt Romney.
"Well, duh, your dad's a Republican strategist."
My father Alex Castellanos' affiliation has not affected my decision. Although I respect his "suggestions," my choices are my own, as even he would tell you.
What has resolved this contest for me? Was it the cantankerous candidates in the last debate, fighting to fight for the safety of our great nation?
No. Personally, I found the last debate tremendously boring, except for President Obama's "bayonets" comment.
Ultimately, my decision came down to this: I could not rehire Bobby Valentine.
Valentine, manager of the Boston Red Sox this past year, was fired after a horrible season.
His team's poor record wasn't entirely Bobby's fault. In fact, Red Sox general manager Ben Cherington said, "Bobby was dealt a difficult hand." No doubt Valentine inherited a lot of problems.
But looking ahead, there was no reason for Sox fans to hope that next season Valentine would lead his team differently or deliver a better record.
Obama inherited a lot of problems, too. In his defense, our expectations for hope and change were too high. Unless he Midas-touched his way through the White House, Obama was destined to disappoint us.
But manager Obama has not achieved the goals he led us to believe he would. He has not turned his team around.
You don't keep a failing manager when there is an acceptable alternative. It's time for a replacement.
I am hoping, praying, that should he be elected, Romney's experience will lead to a positive shift in the economy and an increase in job creation.
I still disagree with the governor on women's rights. Should he become president, I'm going to rely on the power of the American people to protect women from those who would set the clock back.
The Cujo-like, growling TV ads attacking Romney on women's rights are cut and choreographed to make him seem appalling. Romney might not have closed the gender-gap entirely, but at least some women suspect those ads are unrealistic, more bark than bite.
An ad in which Romney says, "I would overturn Roe v. Wade" does not include what follows, the governor stating, "But that's not where we are. That's not where America is today."If Romney is elected, abortion is not going to become illegal. We will not have a government official holding our hands during our annual doctor's visit.
Similarly, I know Romney is against same-sex marriage. One day, I expect to tell my own children there was a time where gay people could not get married, just like my parents told me of a time I could not understand, when African-Americans were not presidents but confined to the back of the bus.
Some of the progress we've made and injustices we've overcome will not be reversed, no matter who is president. "That's not where America is today."
Romney won't be able to change everything. But what if he could change the economy?
"You can stick with what's barely working or take a chance with [Romney]," said Jay Pharaoh, imitating the president on "SNL."
We've had a losing streak, so I'm taking a chance. Because four years from now, if President Obama is finishing his last months in office and we're deeper in debt, still praying for a winning jobs report, I'll know I got just what I expected.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Cat Castellanos.
