Michael Schumacher's family has asked for privacy as the Formula One star remains in a critical condition in a French hospital following a skiing accident.
The 45-year-old is stable but remains in a coma at the Grenoble hospital as he fights the effects of a serious head injury.
Schumacher is a formidable figure in F1, winning a record seven world titles, and his plight has attracted global interest and an outpouring of support from the sport's fans.
However his family wants the media to keep their distance.
"Please support us in our common fight with Michael," Corinna Schumacher, wife of the F1 racer, said in a statement.
"It is important to me that you [media] relieve the doctors and the hospital so that they can work in peace.
"I kindly ask you to trust their statements and leave the clinic. Please also let our family in peace."
Schumacher suffered severe head trauma in a skiing accident at the French Alps resort of Meribel on 29 December.
The German hit a rock hidden under deep snow and was catapulted head first onto another rock. He was not moving fast at the time.
He is in a medically induced coma and has undergone two operations.
His condition has attracted intense media scrutiny and last week a journalist disguised as a priest tried to sneak into the French hospital room where the Formula One superstar is being treated.
The doctors at the hospital have also called for the media to provide more respect.
"The privacy of the patient demands that we are not going into details of his treatment, and this is why we do not plan any press conferences, nor give out written press releases, anymore for the time being," they said in a statement on Monday
"We again insistently ask you to respect the medical secrets and to stick to the information given by the medical team in charge of the patient or his management, as this is the only valid information.
"The clinical state of Michael Schumacher is considered as stable and is constantly monitored by the medical treatments that are administered to him.
"However, the medical team responsible underlines that they will not stop to consider Michael's condition as critical."
Schumacher's manager Sabine Kehm added: "I can confirm Michael's condition can be considered as stable, as written in the official statement. I cannot confirm to have stated that his life is out of danger."
French prosecutors will reportedly brief journalists on their investigation into Schumacher's accident on Wednesday in the Alpine town of Albertville.
Schumacher is the most successful driver in Formula One history, driving for the Benetton and Ferrari teams and winning a record seven world titles and 91 grand prix wins.
