The head of the International Monetary Fund is being questioned by police in connection with the alleged sexual assault Saturday of a Times Square hotel housekeeping employee, New York Deputy Police Commissioner Paul Browne told CNN.
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey police pulled Dominique Strauss-Kahn off of an Air France flight destined for Paris at John F. Kennedy International Airport after the alleged incident, according to Browne. He was taken into custody and brought to a Manhattan police station for questioning, Browne said.
Hours earlier, Browne said, Strauss-Kahn emerged naked when the 32-year-old hotel employee entered his room to clean it around 1 p.m. Saturday at the Hotel Sofitel.
Browne said Strauss-Kahn tried to force himself on the woman, but she broke free and ran to the hotel's front desk. Hotel staff alerted the New York Police Department. By the time officers arrived, Strauss-Kahn had already left, leaving his cell phone behind at the hotel, according to Browne.
"The alleged victim was taken to Roosevelt Hospital (in Manhattan) and was treated for minor injuries," Browne said.
Authorities then learned that the IMF managing director was on an outbound flight at Kennedy airport. New York police asked their counterparts at the Port Authority to hold the plane.
Two plain-clothes Port Authority police detectives boarded the aircraft "just before the door closed" on the flight, and found Strauss-Kahn, 62, seated in first class, said a law enforcement official who had been briefed on the investigation. The IMF executive "offered no resistance" when he was led off the plane, after which he was turned over to New York police, added the official.
Since being detained, Strauss-Kahn has declined to answer questions from New York police investigators nor has he made a statement, Browne said.
No charges have been filed yet in the alleged incident.
John Sheehan, the hotel's director of safety and security, said that Sofitel "is fully cooperating with authorities."
"We're taking this matter extremely serious, as it's developing," Sheehan said.
A former French finance minister, national legislator and economics professor in Paris, Strauss-Kahn became the IMF's 10th-ever managing director in November 2007. He is also chairman of the IMF's executive board.
While Strauss-Kahn hadn't officially entered the race, recent French opinion polls showed him leading prospective Socialist Party presidential candidates. The surveys suggested that he also could pose a formidable challenge to incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy in the 2012 election.
Since assuming his position at the IMF, Strauss-Kahn -- and the world body -- have been repeatedly thrust into the spotlight to deal with a host of crises tied to the recent recession.
In the past several months, for instance, the IMF head has weighed in on recent uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa and a multibillion-dollar bailout for Ireland's government.
That institution, based in Washington, is widely seen as one of the most important in the world when it comes to addressing economic inequalities and crises.
Strauss-Kahn became embroiled in controversy soon after joining the IMF, amid reports -- which he later acknowledged -- that he'd had an improper relationship with a female employee. The physical relationship was consensual, an independent inquiry found.
The world body's executive board concluded in October 2008 that "there was no harassment, favoritism or any other abuse of authority by the managing director."
"Nevertheless, the executive board noted that the incident was regrettable and reflected a serious error of judgment on the part of the managing director, as he has acknowledged and for which he has apologized," the IMF said in a statement at the time.
Strauss-Kahn also issued a statement following the closing of the investigation, noting that he'd "apologized for it to the (board of directors), to the staff of the IMF and to my family," as well as "the staff member."
"I agree with the board that the personal behavior of the managing director sets an important tone for the institution and I am committed, going forward, to uphold the high standards that are expected of this position," he said in the statement.
CNN's Miguel Susana and Ross Levitt contributed to this report.
