Joran van der Sloot has a low tolerance for frustration and "doesn't value the female role," according to excerpts from a psychological investigation report given to a judge by prosecutors Monday.
According to the document, van der Sloot, suspected of killing a Peruvian woman late last month, "does not tolerate when someone tries to contradict him. It generates in him a challenging attitude."
The report calls him "emotionally immature," which elicits strong changes in behavior that can send him out of control.
"He reflects a certain dominance over the opposite sex. He doesn't value the female role," the document states.
Its adds, "he presents traits of an anti-social personality" and is "indifferent towards others' well being."
Despite this, the report says, "he doesn't show any psychopathological trauma that impedes him from perceiving and evaluating reality."
Also Monday, Van der Sloot told the judge that his rights and due process were violated after his arrest in connection with the killing of Stefany Flores Ramirez, his attorney told CNN.
The judge will decide on the legality of van der Sloot's incarceration by Wednesday, lawyer Maximo Altez said. If the ruling is unfavorable to van der Sloot, Altez said he is prepared to appeal to the highest court.
While in front of the judge, however, van der Sloot declined to give a formal statement on the facts of the case, according to the court. The reason he gave was the ongoing motion for habeas corpus, which he hopes will nullify the statements he gave to police that led to his imprisonment.
Van der Sloot's decision will not hold up the legal proceedings against him, the court said.
Meanwhile, in a Dutch newspaper article published Monday, van der Sloot says he was "tricked" into confessing to the murder of Flores.
Peruvian police told him that if he signed the papers they gave him, he would be transferred to the Netherlands, he told De Telegraaf in a jail interview.
"In my blind panic I signed everything, but never knew what was written on them," he said.
Van der Sloot was twice arrested over the disappearance of Alabama teen Natalee Holloway in Aruba in 2005, but never charged.
His mother said Saturday he was mentally unwell, De Telegraaf reported in what it called an exclusive interview with her.
Van der Sloot went to Peru to escape having to enter the high security section of a psychiatric hospital, Anita van der Sloot said.
She said he suffered severe psychological distress at the early death of his father, for which he blamed himself, she said, without giving further details.
She did not deny that he killed Flores.
She said she spoke to him shortly before Flores died and soon after and that he sounded paranoid, saying he was being "followed and watched," De Telegraaf reported.
Van der Sloot's attorney, Altez, has maintained that the judge in the case should strike down van der Sloot's confession because he was not properly represented when he was interrogated.
But Peruvian police have defended the interrogation and said van der Sloot's confession was acquired legally.
According to transcripts of his confession, van der Sloot said he elbowed Flores in the face before strangling her and then suffocating her with his shirt.
The transcripts -- provided to CNN by a police source -- provide shocking details and give the public its first glimpse of why van der Sloot says the alleged murder took place. The source has not been named because he was not authorized to pass along the material.
"There was blood everywhere," van der Sloot said in the transcripts. "What am I going to do now. I had blood on my shirt. There was also blood on the bed, so, I took my shirt and put it on her face, pressing hard, until I killed Stephany."
Peruvian authorities have charged van der Sloot with murder.
Van der Sloot told authorities he attacked Flores on May 30 after she read an e-mail on his computer connected with the Holloway case.
In the transcript, van der Sloot said that after Flores read the e-mail, she punched him in the face.
"At that moment impulsively, with my right elbow I hit her in the face exactly on top of the nose," van der Sloot said. "I think she started to faint. It affected me so that I grabbed her from the neck and strangled her for a minute."
Van der Sloot said he had a quick thought to try and hide the body but instead fled.
He was arrested in Chile on June 3 and was returned the next day to Peru. Along with killing Flores, who had a broken neck, he took money and bank cards from her wallet, police said.
Van der Sloot told police in Chile a different story of how Flores died when he was arrested there, according to transcripts. He blamed the death on robbers who had waited for him at his hotel in Peru.
"There was a man coming from the access door with a knife in his hand," van der Sloot said. "The man with the knife hit her in the face, making her bleed through the nose."
But Peru authorities said they had overwhelming evidence pointing to van der Sloot, and when he was transferred to Peru, van der Sloot confessed to the crime, police said.
Van der Sloot said he was in Peru for a poker tournament and had met Flores while he was gambling.
Police have said they think van der Sloot killed Flores to steal money she won from gambling.
Van der Sloot offered a different motive.
"After I responded with hitting her, I feared that she would go to the police and they would detain me for what was an impulsive act," van der Sloot said. "I think I wanted to kill her because I wasn't thinking."
Van der Sloot is being held in a high-security area of the Miguel Castro Castro prison where only two of 10 cells are occupied, and he has no contact with inmates in the general prison population.
He is under guard 24 hours a day, authorities have said.
The only other inmate in the area is alleged Colombian hit man Hugo Trujillo Ospina. The two have spent some time together in a common area where there is a television set and weights made of broomsticks and soda bottles, authorities said.
There is the possibility that van der Sloot will be integrated with other segments of the prison population.
CNN's Francesca Church, Mayra Cuevas and Jean Casarez contributed to this report.
