NBC's medical correspondent Dr. Nancy Snyderman has issued an apology after she reportedly violated the quarantine her team was placed in when their cameraman contracted Ebola.
During the NBC Nightly News broadcast on Monday, anchor Brian Williams read out the following statement from Snyderman:
"While under voluntary quarantine guidelines, which called for our team to avoid public contact for 21 days, members of our group violated those guidelines and understand that our quarantine is now mandatory until 21 days have passed. We remain healthy and our temperatures are normal.
"As a health professional I know that we have no symptoms and pose no risk to the public, but I am deeply sorry for the concerns this episode caused. We are thrilled that Ashoka (Mukpo) is getting better and our thoughts continue to be with the thousands affected by Ebola whose stories we all went to cover."
Trip to Liberia
Snyderman and her team went into a 21-day voluntary isolation after Mukpo, their freelance cameraman, was found to have contracted Ebola. The team had been in Liberia, a hotspot for the outbreak.
Mukpo is recovering at the Nebraska Medical Center where he is receiving an experimental drug called brincidofovir, or CMX001.
Twenty one days is standard length for quarantine because that's how long the disease's incubation period is.
But the NBC crew apparently broke its word.
Takeout order
The website Planet Princeton reported that Snyderman went to a restaurant to pick up a takeout order.
Shortly after, the New Jersey Department of Health mandated the crew remain quarantined.
"Unfortunately, the NBC crew violated this agreement and so the Department of Health Friday evening issued a mandatory quarantine order to ensure that the crew will remain confined until October 22," the health department said.
"The NBC crew remains symptom-free, so there is no reason for concern of exposure to the community," it read.
Expressing appreciation
Meanwhile, Mukpo posted a status update on his Facebook page Monday, thanking everyone for their concerns.
"There have been some dark and profoundly frightening moments in this ordeal, but I want everyone to know that your good energy, love, and support was felt in a very direct way over these last two weeks," he wrote.
I won't ever know exactly when I slipped up and contracted the virus. I had been taking precautions but obviously they weren't enough."
