LOS ANGELES, California (CNN)  -- California corrections officials released an updated prison photograph of Charles Manson on Wednesday, showing the balding and graying 74-year-old, complete with his iconic forehead swastika.
A new photo of Charles Manson shows his graying beard and his legendary swastika tattooed into his forehead.
The picture was taken as part of a regular update of inmate images at the California State Prison in Corcoran, about 150 miles northwest of Los Angeles, where Manson is serving a life term.
The release of the picture comes ahead of the 40th anniversary of the "Manson family" killings in August 1969.
Manson and four others -- Susan Atkins, Patricia Krenwinkel, Charles "Tex" Watson and Leslie Van Houten -- were convicted of murder and other charges in connection with a two-night rampage that left pregnant actress Sharon Tate and seven others dead.
Van Houten, who was 19 at the time of the killings, was convicted in the murders of Leno LaBianca, a wealthy grocery store owner, and his wife, Rosemary. Van Houten was accused of stabbing Rosemary LaBianca 14 to 16 times in the back.
Van Houten was also convicted of conspiracy in Tate's death and four others at the actress' Beverly Hills home. Tate was 8½ months pregnant, and the baby also died in the attack. Manson, Atkins and Krenwinkel were convicted for those murders.
All members of the "Manson family" have been up for parole multiple times over the past four decades, but it has never been granted.
Atkins, who has been declared terminally ill, was denied a compassionate release from prison in July 2008.  Atkins has told police she was one of the people who stabbed Tate and scrawled the word "pig" in blood on the door of the home the actress shared with director Roman Polanski.
In May 2008, authorities dug for bodies at the Inyo County, California, ranch where Manson and his followers once lived, after police learned that testing had indicated human remains might be buried there. According to authorities, nothing was found.
