An American amateur golfer is poised to extend an incredible world record on December 26 as he aims to complete his 600th round of 2010.
Richard Lewis holds the Guinness Book of World Records' title of "Most Avid Golfer" after breaking the mark of most rounds played in a year when he finished his 587th on December 19.
The 64-year-old, who has played as many as 54 holes in a day, will take to the tee at the Four Seasons Resort and Club in the Las Colinas region of Dallas, Texas for his next milestone.
He has played all of his rounds at the club's TPC venue -- which hosts the PGA Tour's Byron Nelson Championship event -- and its private members' course at Cottonwood Valley.
Lewis, who has walked an estimated 3,900 miles during the feat, explained how this achievement is the next best thing to being a professional golfer.
"When I was 10 years old, I wanted to be a PGA Tour pro," he told the tour's website. "But it never worked out for me. Now I have another quest, another goal, which I fully intend to complete in December."
To commemorate his momentous 18 holes, Lewis will play alongside supporters who have paid more than $5,000 to compete alongside him when he starts at his usual tee-off time of 7.30 a.m.
The funds raised will then be donated to "The First Tee of Dallas," a local charity aimed at improving the lives of young people through golf.
After his effort on December 26, Lewis will continue to play until the end of this year, with his final total likely to stand at 611.
Lewis told the PGA Tour website that he has missed only 19 days this year -- all due to bad weather. He has lost 40 pounds during the challenge despite eating at least one pizza a day plus protein drinks to keep up his strength.
Four Seasons club manager Rob Cowan has hailed the veteran golfer's efforts.
"The detail to his quest is just amazing," Cowan said. "Just eating healthy, staying healthy and getting ready for another round.
"In fact, I would say nobody in the 27-year history of the Four Seasons has gotten more out of his membership than Richard."
