David Haye claims that Wladimir Klitschko will "freeze like an iceberg" when the heavyweight boxing champions finally meet in Hamburg on July 2, after the date and venue was confirmed on Wednesday.
The British fighter will put his WBA belt on the line against the Ukrainian's IBF/WBO and IBO crowns in a long-awaited unification fight at the 57,000-capacity Imtech Arena.
The German city is the adopted home of the 35-year-old Klitschko and his elder brother Vitali, who Haye also hopes to fight before his planned retirement in October.
"It's great to finally find out the date and venue," Haye said on his website. "I've been training for this fight since the end of 2010 and it's nice to now have a concrete date to work towards.
"Hamburg is an accessible city for a lot of British fans, so I'm expecting a huge turnout for what is undoubtedly the biggest boxing event of the year. We're going to have an army of Brits invading Germany on July 2nd and I can't wait to sample the atmosphere."
Haye mocks 'fat' Solis after farcical Klitschko defeat
The Klitschko camp confirmed that the details had been finalized with a statement on their Facebook page: "Let's get ready to rumble!!! The highly anticipated fight is on."
The showdown between two of boxing's biggest names has been on the cards since Haye stepped up from the cruiserweight division where he was also a champion, but he pulled out of a planned fight with Wladimir in 2009 due to a back injury.
Both camps have engaged in a war of words since, with tensions heightened when Wladimir agreed to fight Haye's lower-ranked compatriot Dereck Chisora in December.
Boxing needs Klitschko/Haye showdown
Klitschko pulled out of that bout, but then agreed to reschedule it for March in a move that further angered Haye, before another injury put paid to that plan.
"Wladimir has a history of being knocked out by fast punchers, and I punch faster than every other heavyweight in the world," Haye boasted.
"I've got no doubt Wladimir will freeze like an iceberg when I hit him on the chin in Hamburg. He won't know how to react, will panic, attempt to run for cover and then realize big brother Vitali is in the corner mopping up tears with a white towel."
