Michael Jackson was "totally addicted to propofol," the surgical anesthetic the coroner ruled killed him, the pop star's dermatologist said in an interview with the In Session network.
Dr. Arnold Klein said he personally tried several times to prevent other doctors from administering propofol to Jackson for sleep.
"I knew this problem existed," Klein said in the interview Saturday. "I did my best to prevent it. Whenever I could, I prevented it, but I'm only one man and I have to support my own life and take care of myself."
Klein disputed the argument by Dr. Conrad Murray's lawyers that he addicted Jackson to Demerol in the months before his death, saying he used only low doses of the painkiller while repairing Jackson's collapsed nose and jawline.
Because Demerol was not found in Jackson's blood, the judge did not allow Dr. Murray's defense to call Klein as a witness in Murray's involuntary manslaughter trial, in which jurors are scheduled to resume deliberations Monday morning. But medical records of Jackson's visit to Klein's Beverly Hills clinic were introduced as evidence.
Klein described three instances in which he said he was involved as interventions to prevent Jackson from getting propofol, although Klein gave no indication of when the incidents occurred.
In the first instance, Klein said he chartered a plane to Las Vegas when he heard Jackson was getting propofol at a hotel where the singer was staying. Klein claimed he threw out the doctor involved to prevent him from giving Jackson the drug.
In another encounter in Hawaii, Klein said he and his nurse slept on the floor of Jackson's room to prevent him from getting propofol from a plastic surgeon.
Klein claimed he once "saved" Jackson in New York when another doctor administered propofol, combined with another drug. It made Jackson go "running down the street," Klein said.
A Los Angeles County jury is deliberating the fate of Murray, the physician caring for Michael Jackson when he died in June 2009.
Klein, interviewed in his Beverly Hills home, said that while it was too upsetting to watch much of the trial, he watched enough to believe Murray wanted to "make me look like a demon" and "make me as a scapegoat."
Murray's defense contends Jackson became addicted to Demerol through frequent visits to Klein's Beverly Hills dermatology clinic in the months before his death. Murray was unaware of the addiction, and therefore unable to understand why he could not help Jackson sleep, the defense contends.
Medical records presented to the jury showed at least 24 visits by Jackson to Klein's office from March 12 until June 22, 2009, three days before Jackson's death. The defense previously said Jackson was given 6,500 milligrams of Demerol at Klein's clinic during those visits.
Jackson received 900 milligrams of Demerol at Klein's clinic over three days in early May, the records showed.
"I would never give a person those doses they attributed to me," Klein said.
The records are misleading because he was in Paris during most of May, he said. Other doctors working out of Klein's office may have given Jackson that larger doses of Demerol, he said.
When asked if Murray's defense team knew they were not all Klein's medical records, Klein responded by saying, "They absolutely had to know. Why do you think they covered the signature on the bottom of the chart?"
It was noted during testimony that no doctor's signature was on the medical records.
Murray's defense team, which is under an order from the judge not to talk to reporters about the case, did not immediately respond to Klein's comments.
Klein said he began the slow and painful process of rebuilding some of Jackson's facial skin in early April after his nose collapsed and after he lost his jaw line.
Jackson, who was preparing for his comeback concert tour, wanted to look his best, Klein said. "Michael was an absolute perfectionist," he said.
Klein said he is being attacked because he is different. He likened his plight to Galileo and Michael Jackson. He cited the molestation trial of Jackson as an example of how the singer was targeted for being different.
Klein said he was angry about Jackson's death under Murray's care.
"Where did they find this man?" he said.
Jackson recruited Murray to work as his personal physician after Murray had treated him and his children for minor illnesses while they were in Las Vegas, according to testimony.
Klein said he did not believe Jackson would approve of the current trial of his doctor. "This is insanity," he said.
CNN's Alan Duke contributed to this report.
