(CNN Student News) -- March 19, 2014
Russia's president signs a treaty to annex Crimea. On today's show, we'll tell you why, and we'll report on how some members of the international community are responding. We also cover challenges facing General Motors, a theory that's making waves among some scientists, and reasons behind the madness of March.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Is promoting consumer safety a responsibility of the news media? If not, why not? If so, how can the media do this?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Medal of Honor
2. General Motors
3. galaxy
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What action did Russian President Vladimir Putin take yesterday regarding Crimea? How have the United States and the European Union responded to this action?
2. How many veterans were awarded the Medal of Honor yesterday? In what wars did these individuals serve? Why were some awarded the medals so long after their service? What did President Obama say about their courage?
3. Who is Mary Barra? What huge challenge is she facing as the leader of her company? According to the video: How might her "insider status" be a liability in this situation? What do crisis management experts suggest she do? Why might this advice be difficult to follow?
4. What do some researchers say they have discovered regarding the Big Bang theory? How did they get this information? What critical responses have there been regarding this announcement?
5. What sports event is known as "March Madness"? How many teams qualify for the tournament? According to the video, what impact does March Madness have on business productivity in the U.S.? Why?
Discussion Questions:
1. What impact do you think that stories of bravery in wartime have on an audience? How might the stories of heroes who faced discrimination demonstrate additional lessons in character?
2. In your opinion, what course of action should Mary Barra take in the wake of General Motors' car recall? Why do you think that public perception of a company is important? How can public perception have a financial impact on a business?
3. What is your opinion of the Big Bang theory? What is the rationale for your view?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
