Increased security was put in place at Dodger Stadium ahead of Thursday's baseball game between the Dodgers and the St. Louis Cardinals in the wake of a March 31 attack in which a San Francisco Giants fan was seriously injured.
Bryan Stow, 42, was put in a medically induced coma following, which followed a Dodgers-Giants game. About 100 witnesses saw Stow attacked as he left a stadium parking lot. The two suspected assailants fled after the beating in a light-colored, four-door car driven by a woman with a young boy inside, authorities have said.
Family members said doctors have lowered Stow's sedation and are hoping he wakes up soon.
"We have received hundreds of tips, but we are far from a solution," Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck told reporters Thursday. He appealed to those with information to come forward, saying they can do so anonymously. He showed reporters new composite sketches of the suspects. Officials are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to arrests and convictions.
"I haven't had that 'Aha!' moment yet," said Beck. "We haven't got where I want to get."
Fans attending Thursday's game will notice an increased police presence inside and outside the stadium, Beck told reporters. Officers are tasked with ensuring the no-tailgating rule is enforced and no fans are drinking in surrounding areas before entering the stadium, he said. In addition, increased lighting has been added to the parking lots.
At the game, "if you're unruly, if you're threatening, if you're making comments that would lead to violence, you'll be ejected," Beck said. "And if they rise to a criminal level, you'll be arrested."
In addition, a half-off alcohol promotion at the stadium has been discontinued, and officers will be in the crowd watching for people who appear to be intoxicated, officials said.
Other issues being examined include lighting and camera systems, said former Los Angeles Police Chief William Bratton, whose risk consulting company Kroll is working with officials.
Dodgers owner Frank McCourt said he hopes officials can go even further and bring about changes in fans' behavior.
"We sincerely hope that the solutions we put in place here at Dodger Stadium will be used at sports and entertainment venues throughout America," McCourt said.
Stow is hospitalized at the Los Angeles County-University of Southern California Medical Center.
As of Wednesday, "There have been no more seizures for a couple days," Stow's sister Erin wrote on a website launched to provide updates on his condition, www.support4bryanstow.com. Doctors have been lowering his sedation, she wrote.
"Once it's out of his system, he can be examined and hopefully (praying) he responds to commands. Or better yet, wakes up."
Stow has had no seizures for five days, his cousin, John Stow, told CNN affiliate KRON on Thursday, "which is tremendous. We're very thankful." He said it's not known when Stow will wake up. "Head injuries are unique," he said. "Every case is different, so we're just going to be patient ... Bryan's going to do it when he's ready."
The family has said they are grateful for the outpouring of support. Since the unprovoked attack, money has poured in from numerous donors and fundraising events to help pay for Stow's medical costs and support his two young children.
At a dual fundraiser Monday at Dodger Stadium and AT&T Park in San Francisco, where the two teams played, more than $120,000 was raised, said American Medical Response spokesman Jason Sorrick. In all, more than $200,000 has been raised for Stow, who works for AMR.
"We couldn't be more proud of Bryan and the way the community has rallied around him," John Stow said. Another event was to be held in the San Francisco area Thursday.
At Dodger Stadium, collection bins will be available for those wishing to donate, officials said Thursday.
CNN's Stan Wilson contributed to this report.
