(CNN)As Bobbi Kristina Brown remains in a medically induced coma fighting for her life, little information about the incident at her Atlanta-area home or her condition has slipped from police or family.
If the investigation into what happened to the 21-year-old only child of Whitney Houston has revealed much, no one is talking publicly about it.
We do know this: Brown was discovered facedown in a bathtub at her Roswell, Georgia, home over the weekend, and she was reportedly found by the man she has called her husband, and a friend.
Here's what we know about the players involved in the story.
Bobbi Kristina Brown
She is the daughter of two singers who were pop music icons of 1980s and 1990s. She was born on March 4, 1993, less than a year after parents, Bobby Brown and Whitney Houston, wed.
At the time, her mother was enjoying critical acclaim for her first acting role in "The Bodyguard" and for the accompanying soundtrack, which featured Houston belting out a rendition of Dolly Parton's "I Will Always Love You."
It appears Bobbi Kristina wanted to follow in her parents' footsteps. As a youngster, she appeared on stage with her mother on numerous occasions.
She told Oprah Winfrey during a 2012 interview that her plan for life included the "singing thing ... some acting, some dancing." She also spoke to Winfrey about how much she missed her mother, who died February 11, 2012.
Days before Bobbi Kristina Brown's hospitalization, her Twitter timeline seemed to indicate her mother and her own singing career were quite on her mind.
On January 26 at 4:14 a.m., about two weeks before the anniversary of her mother's death, Bobbi Kristina Brown tweeted, "Littlelady&yourgrowing young man @nickdgordon miss you mommy ..:') SOmuch.. loving you more every sec. #Anniversary!"
About an hour earlier, she tweeted, "Hiworld :)(: yes I am a night owl, this is when my creative side come's out. ALLTHETIME! I need2be in the studio RITENOW! #SOONverySOON!"
She was found Saturday unresponsive in her Roswell townhome.
Nobody knows what caused Brown's unresponsiveness, Roswell police spokeswoman Lisa Holland said, but police have said they consider it a medical incident. Investigators had found nothing to indicate it was drug- or alcohol-related. The incident report referenced a drowning.
Police had been to Brown's residence recently. Somebody reported a fight there on January 23, but nobody answered the door and officers found no evidence of an altercation, Holland said.
Nick Gordon
Bobbi Kristina Brown called him her husband, but her father's attorney released a statement saying the two were never married.
Bobbi Kristina Brown reportedly got engaged to Gordon, and in January 2014, she tweeted out a picture of wedding rings, along with the words, "#HappilyMarried• SO#Inlove."
Gordon, 25, faced criticism following the tweet from those who questioned how he could marry a woman he considered his sister. Gordon had lived with Houston and her daughter since he was 12 years old.
He once told the show "Extra" that Houston treated him like a son and "made me promise several times to look after Krissy ... and, Mom, I will never, ever, ever break that promise."
Gordon was one of the two people who reportedly found Bobbi Kristina Brown unresponsive in the tub.
Max Lomas
Lomas, 24, was the other.
In response to several media outlets reporting Lomas' lengthy rap sheet, attorney Philip Holloway issued a statement Tuesday saying his client is a cooperative witness and Lomas' most recent arrest in January has nothing to do with Brown's hospitalization.
Holloway told CNN on Wednesday that his client was the one who actually found Brown and called 911. Holloway's comments came after he met with Roswell police for two hours; his client was not at the meeting, he said.
On January 15, Lomas was booked on charges of possession of marijuana with intent to distribute, possession of alprazolam (aka Xanax, an anti-anxiety drug), and possession of a firearm or knife during the commission of or the attempt to commit a felony, according to Fulton County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Tracy Flanagan.
CNN has learned from Fulton and Dawson County authorities that Lomas was arrested at least three times in 2011 and 2012 and charged with a host of crimes, including battery and alcohol, weapons, drug and probation violations. Holloway did not mention the previous arrests in his statement.
"Mr. Lomas' widely reported recent arrest is completely unrelated to the incidents that occurred at Ms. Brown's residence and there is absolutely no relationship between the events. He has pleaded not guilty to those charges," Holloway said. "Mr. Lomas has not been accused of anything in connection with Bobbi Kristina Brown's injuries."
Bobby Brown
Bobbi Kristina Brown's father is as much known for his shenanigans as he is for his music, if not more.
He shot to fame in 1984 on the back of the hits, "Mr. Telephone Man" and "Cool it Now," by his band, New Edition. The band would eventually splinter into three relatively successful solo acts and the R&B trio, Bell Biv Devoe.
Upon leaving New Edition (it's debatable what precipitated his departure as competing narratives suggest he either left voluntarily or was voted out by fellow band members), he embarked on a solo career that stuttered at first but eventually spawned numerous hits, including "Don't Be Cruel," "Every Little Step" and "My Prerogative," before fizzling in the 1990s.
He married Houston in 1992, and the story line surrounding Brown would quickly become one of cocaine, booze, rehab, arrests and alleged violence against Houston, who filed for divorce in 2006. The marriage ended in 2007.
Brown, who turned 46 on Thursday, reportedly got sober after splitting from Houston, but he has been arrested for DUI, entered rehab and has been jailed since their split.
Whitney Houston
A songstress with a golden voice and the cousin of Dionne Warwick, Houston's albums have sold tens of millions of copies worldwide. The soundtrack to "The Bodyguard" went platinum 17 times in the United States, according to the Recording Industry Association of America, and reportedly sold 45 million copies worldwide.
Her first No. 1 hit would come in 1985 with "Saving All My Love For You," and a string of No. 1 hits followed, as did a marginally successful acting career.
However, she would not enjoy the spoils of, say, a Michael Jackson because she didn't write and produce her own songs.
In an interview in 2002 with ABC's Diane Sawyer, Houston admitted to using drugs but denied the use of crack.
She told Sawyer: "The biggest devil is me. I'm either my best friend or my worst enemy."
Houston bounced in and out of drug rehab twice, declaring herself drug-free during a 2009 interview with Oprah Winfrey.
When she drowned in a hotel bathtub almost three years before Bobbi Kristina Brown was found in a similar state (cocaine and heart disease were cited as factors in her death), Houston, 48, had an estate worth an estimated $12 million to $20 million.
According to her will, which she signed about a month before Bobbi Kristina Brown's 1993 birth, her daughter was the sole heir to her estate.
If she had no children, the will said, the money was to be split among her mother, father (now deceased), two brothers and Bobby Brown.  She filed an amendment to the will in 2000 but only changed the executor and one of the trustees. The heirs remained the same.
It was widely reported that when Bobbi Kristina Brown turned 21 in March 2014, she received the first installment from her trust, one-tenth of her mother's estate.
Bobbi Kristina Brown is scheduled to receive one-sixth of the estate in 2018 and the remaining balance in 2023.
CNN's Ralph Ellis, Greg Botelho, John Newsome, Carolyn Sung, Lisa Respers France and Nick Valencia contributed to this report.
