(CNN Student News) -- September 13, 2013
With U.S. and Russian officials meeting in Geneva, Switzerland, CNN Student News shares the city's history as a site for diplomatic negotiations. We also report on severe flooding in Colorado, and we explore a connection between Detroit's financial struggles and thousands of stray dogs. Plus, we explain the most significant day on the Jewish calendar.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What could be the potential benefits and drawbacks of a world leader sending a message to another country through the news media?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What city was chosen to host the 2020 Olympic Games?
2. In which country did the U.S. secretary of state and the Russian foreign minister recently meet to discuss Syria?
3. What U.S. state has the highest mean elevation of all 50 states?
4. What Jewish holiday is known as the "Day of Atonement"?
5. What international cause does Malala Yousafzai champion: conditions in refugee camps, education rights, or women's equality in sports?
6. What European country did a recent survey rank as the happiest nation on Earth?
7. In what city is One World Trade Center being constructed?
8. What is the largest U.S. city to file for bankruptcy?
9. Who painted the recently discovered artwork "Sunset at Montmajour"?
10. In what ocean did scientists find the largest volcano on Earth?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Europe
Geneva, Switzerland
North America
Detroit, Michigan; Colorado
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
