Real Madrid coach Manuel Pellegrini believes his squad is now "complete" and ready for the challenge of a new Primera Division campaign.
Manuel Pellegrini is encouraged with the performances of Cristiano Ronaldo and company in pre-season.
The Bernabeu club have invested heavily in their side over the summer, bringing in the likes of Kaka, Cristiano Ronaldo, Xabi Alonso and Karim Benzema in a bid to wrest the domestic and Champions League trophies away from rivals Barcelona.
The pre-season signs have been encouraging, and they rounded off their preparations with a 4-0 rout of Norwegian side Rosenborg on Monday.
Pellegrini is hopeful it will all come together again when they kick off their Spanish Liga campaign against Deportivo La Coruna on Saturday.
"The pre-season has been very positive and we've managed to prepare the squad well, allowing every man to play more or less the same time," he told the club's official Web site.
"The team is solid in defence and has potential in attack. We keep possession more on our opponent's half of the pitch, allowing us to showcase our technical differences.
"This squad is complete. It gives us alternatives to try out different things. We still have to polish some aspects of our game, but I'm not worried about that."
Pellegrini has also been impressed by Ronaldo, although he believes the Portugal winger requires more time to settle in following his move from Manchester United.
"Cristiano Ronaldo needs a little time to adapt to his new team's style. Every player on the squad is working hard to be fit and play well," the coach added.
"Cristiano has experienced a change in style and now lives in a different country. He needs a little more time unlike those who already know La Liga."
Ronaldo himself is looking forward to the challenges ahead, with Real desperate to improve on their showing last term.
"The team is doing well. We are working hard and preparing for the start of La Liga," he said.
"I feel comfortable and relaxed. I am working hard and I am waiting for the league to begin. I'm sure things will turn out as we want them to.
"We must take things slowly, get in good shape and think positively at all times."
