David Haye says he would relish a fight against reigning World Boxing Council (WBC) champion Vitali Klitschko after beating fellow Briton Dereck Chisora at Upton Park football stadium in London on Saturday.
"I held a version of the world heavyweight championship and I would like to regain a version of the world heavyweight championship ... I would love to challenge him for his title," Haye said at a news conference.
"After a performance like that and him getting on, if you were one of his advisers you wouldn't tell Vitali to fight me," the 31-year-old added.
Haye retired after losing to Vitali's brother, Vladimir on points in July 2011, but came out of retirement to fight Chisora after the British pair brawled at a press conference which followed Chisora's loss on points to Vitali in Munich last February.
"I've proved my punching power against someone who pushed Vitali to the wire. It was a measuring stick to show how I performed against his last opponent. I would be very confident of beating Vitali," Haye said.
But the 40-year-old's future in the sport is uncertain. His next fight against Germany's Manuel Charr is scheduled to take place in Moscow on September 8, but it could be his last as the Ukrainian looks to concentrate on a political career.
Former world heavyweight champion, Haye impressed on his return to the ring stopping Chisora in the 5th round of the much-hyped grudge match.
The fight was a predictably lively affair, with Haye and Zimbabwe-born Chisora finally exchanging blows after trading a string of insults in the weeks leading up to the fight.
Haye vs. Chisora? That's just handbags - watch the women at the Olympics
But it was Haye's power allied to some trademark nimble glove work which finally prevailed as the 10-round fight sanctioned by the Luxembourg Boxing Federation neared the halfway stage.
Towards the end of the fifth round, the 31-year old unleashed a devastating left-hook before a follow-up right hand floored Chisora.
The Zimbabwe-born fighter made referee Luis Pabon's count comfortably but crashed to the canvas again seconds later following a barrage of punches from Haye.
He staggered to his feet a second time but Pabon stopped the fight leaving Haye to milk the cheers from a boisterous 30,000-strong crowd.
Sworn enemies before Saturday's fight, Haye and Chisora finished the night exchanging pats, smiles and handshakes in front of photographers, before both publicly declaring a truce to their bitter war of words.
"Whatever beef I had with Dereck before the fight is over now from my side and I hope it's vice versa," Haye told Sky Sports.
"After sharing a ring with Dereck I have a new found respect for the man. I had respect for his boxing ability but I never believed he could be as good as he was tonight. He raised his game," Haye added.
Chisora agreed. The two men had made up and could now "eat in the same restaurants and go to the same clubs," the 28-year-old said.
"It was a great fight and everything is done."
Khan stunned in Las Vegas
It was a less happy night for Briton's Amir Khan, who suffered a shock defeat at the hands of Danny Garcia in their light-welterweight world title clash in Las Vegas.
The referee stepped in to stop the fight in the fourth round after WBC champion Garcia launched a series of blistering attacks on Khan which saw the Briton felled three times.
"I always knew I had it in me. I feel like the great fighters bring the best out of me and Khan is a great fighter," Garcia said after the fight.
Khan, who has now lost three times in 26 professional bouts, posted an message on his official Facebook page saying: "Can I apologize to my family friends and everyone. I got caught with a shot and I know millions of u are upset but that's boxing for u."
The 25-year-old lost his World Boxing Association (WBA) and International Boxing Federation (IBF) belts to Lamont Peterson in December 2011, but was reinstated as the WBA champion earlier this month after the American failed a drugs test prior to their scheduled rematch in May.
The IBF are still to decide on what course of action they will take regarding the original fight.
