(CNN Student News) -- October 7, 2013
CNN Student News shares the details on two military operations that U.S. officials say send a message to terrorists around the world. We also discuss new developments in the partial U.S. government shutdown, and we examine concerns surrounding the U.S. debt ceiling. Plus, we offer Five Things to Know about the U.S. Supreme Court as it begins its new session.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might the information gathered from a written account of court proceedings differ from that of a televised broadcast? What advantages might each kind of account offer to the audience?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects from today's show:
1. embassy
2. debt ceiling
3. U.S. Supreme Court
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Describe the two counterterrorism operations that were launched by U.S. military forces this weekend. Where did these operations take place?
2. What is meant by the term "debt ceiling"? According to the report, if no agreement to raise the debt ceiling is reached by October 17, what could happen?
3. How is the U.S. Supreme Court different from other courts you have seen or are familiar with?
Discussion Questions:
1. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry has talked about the importance of holding those who conduct acts of terror "accountable." What do you think this means? In your opinion, how should terrorists be held accountable for their actions?
2. Is your area subject to any extreme weather? If so, what kind(s)? How does your community prepare for these weather events?
3. Do you think that cameras should or should not be allowed in the U.S. Supreme Court? State the reasoning behind your opinion.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
Tripoli, Libya; Somalia
North America
South Dakota; Wyoming; Nebraska; Kentucky
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
