(CNN Student News) -- March 31, 2014
This Monday on CNN Student News, step inside a tremendous facility where first responders get on-the-job training for potential disasters. We'll also cover a tense region near Ukraine's border with Russia, and we'll explain how NASA is turning to the public for its ideas on spacesuit style. And if you've ever asked, "What does the fox say?" we have your answer.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might media coverage of disaster training affect public perceptions of first responders?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. geopolitical
2. epicenter
3. prototype
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. According to the video: Why are some Ukrainian citizens guarding the northeastern border of their country? What are these volunteer troops lacking? What evidence is there that they have popular support in this region? Why are Ukrainian troops on high alert along the border? Why is there a sense of disbelief among some Ukrainian troops over the current situation? How is the Russian government responding to the Ukrainians' concerns?
2. Where was the epicenter of a magnitude 5.1 earthquake that hit Southern California this weekend? About how many aftershocks have occurred? When was the last time that a major earthquake struck this area?
3. What is Guardian Centers? Where is this facility located? Who are some of its clients? What gave the facility's founder the idea to build it? According to the video, how has the center "changed the game" for disaster response training?
4. Why is NASA redesigning its spacesuits? How is the agency asking the public to participate in this redesign? What is the actual purpose of NASA's spacesuits? What has been the cost of previous suits?
Discussion Questions:
1. In the video, we hear the reporter refer to Russia and the U.S. as "Cold War foes." What do you know about the Cold War? What kind of event was it? When did it take place? What countries were involved? Why do you think that the Cold War has been referenced in some reports concerning the situation in Ukraine? Do you think this is appropriate? Why or why not?
2. Why do you think that a disaster training facility like Guardian Centers uses "real props"? How might realistic settings and objects provide a better training experience for first responders?
3. Have you ever participated in a disaster drill at your school? What value do you think these kinds of drills have for students, staff and others who participate? Why?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
