In short order, freed miner Victor Antonio Segovia dispatches with some of the myths swirling around the 33 men rescued from the depths of the earth this week: He has no plans to write a book about what he endured in the San Jose mine, he isn't going to sue anyone for the collapse, and he intends to go back to working in the area's mines.
"Just not that one," Segovia says.
All day Friday in the hardscrabble mining town of Paipote, Segovia's family and neighbors ready the Segovia family home for his arrival from the nearby hospital. All 33 men underwent a barrage of medical testing to see how their record days of imprisonment underground had affected them mentally and physically. All but two miners were released from the hospital Friday, and all the men are expected to make a full recovery.
The Segovia family was particularly hard hit by the collapse. Two of the other trapped miners, Esteban and Pablo Rojas, are Segovia's cousins.
"Welcome home Victor Segovia," one neighbor said as she carried a handwritten sign greeting the miner into his home. "If God has given you a new life and chance, grab on to it with everything you have."
The family has received gifts. While Victor's brother Pedro Segovia waits under the scorching sun of Chile's Atacama desert, he nervously toys with a brand new Sony media player. An anonymous gift left for the now famous miner.
Pedro Segovia said his brother is tough and untouched by how close he came to dying in the dark recesses of the earth. "We missed him a lot," Pedro Segovia said.
But for him its just like another shift. As if he worked for eight hours and came home.
If Segovia  has troubling memories of his long, forced stay in the mine, so far he hasn't shared them with his brother.
"He'll tell me at some point," Pedro Segovia said. "What happened, what he lived through."
Inside the Segovia house are hints of how he passed the long weeks of eternal darkness. Two Chilean flags decorate a wall in a courtyard behind the Segovia's home. In carefully etched blue ink Victor drew a miner with a drill over a 33 on the white section of the flag.
Below, each miner wrote his name and put his signatures in ordered columns.
"For you with all my heart," Segovia wrote his mother Blanca. The flags were a gift for her 50th wedding anniversary and were delivered by way of the "paloma" tube system that sent food and letters to the men.
"He likes to play the guitar, accordion and organ," Blanca Segovia said with pride about her son, who learned to play the instruments without any formal training. "We are going to have a nice party for him."
But for the guest of honor just getting to the party will be almost as difficult as the previous legs of his journey. As the afternoon wears on, more and more media trickle into the neighborhood. Tripods and cameras are posted like sentries in front of the Segovia home.
It has all the makings of an ugly media scene. So photographers agree and shake hands that all will stay in a fixed line so everyone can get an unobstructed shot of Segovia's homecoming. But hours later as Segovia steps from a van, a still photographer lurches forward and the plan is scrapped.
Pushing against the wave of cameramen, Chilean police nearly have to carry the miner into his family's home. One of the photographers gets into a showing match with an officer after the melee.
As the party gets under way, though, clapping and joyous chants of "Chi Chi Chi, Le Le Le, los mineros de Chile," can be heard from outside the house.
Then journalists still hanging around the house receive an invitation to come in and speak with the miner.
Segovia appeared understandably worn from his ordeal and the crush of media attention. As reporters ask him questions, he looks down. His voice is soft and his answers are clipped.
"That was quite something," he said simply of the August 5 mine collapse. "That was something very ugly."
He said he has been to Camp Hope, where family members waited for the miners' rescue. "I don't need to go back," he said.
Segovia said he missed his family terribly while in the mine. And, he said, he has become someone who "thinks more about God."
"We were a team," he said of the 33 men. "But all the same there were problems. So much time together, like any family, the problems start but were ones we worked out."
Other miners have told CNN that the 33 men swore an oath never to discuss the details of what took place as the men struggled to survive in the mine.
Before he goes back to the party, Segovia makes it clear he is not completely free of the mine.
"Down there you were always tired and didn't have any nightmares," he said. "Here you have nightmares until you realize you are out."
