McLaren driver Lewis Hamilton has predicted the 2011 British Grand Prix at Silverstone could be the most exciting in history.
The 2008 world champion won his home race during a victorious campaign three years ago and Hamilton described the maximum-points haul as one of the highlights of his motorsport career.
"I'm really looking forward to Silverstone," Hamilton told Formula One's official web site.
"My victory at Silverstone in 2008 was one of the sweetest and most satisfying moments of my entire Formula One career -- and it's a memory that I always carry with me.
Impressive Vettel powers to another win
"It's one of the best circuits in the world, and I really think that the arrival of DRS and KERS Hybrid will make this one of the best and most exciting British Grand Prix ever."
KERS -- an innovation that stores energy created under braking for user as an additional boost when accelerating -- was reintroduced to the sport in 2011, while DRS (Drag Reduction System) allows the rear wing of Formula One cars to be adjusted in a way that gives a boost of speed in new for the current season.
Hamilton is currently fourth in the drivers' standings after eight races, 89 points behind current leader and reigning world champion Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull.
The 26-year-old's future has been the subject of much speculation, with reports suggesting he could leave McLaren for the 2011 constructors' champions Red Bull.
But McLaren team principal Martin Whitmarsh moved to end talk of Hamilton switching allegiances, and said he expects the Stevenage-born racer to remain with the British-based marque.
"Lewis loves this team and he knows the car is capable of winning races," Whitmarsh told British newspaper The Independent.
"He's sat with me here in the last 10 days and explained his passion, enthusiasm and desire to remain part of this team.
"I've known him since he was 11. I don't think he would look me in the eye and say that if he didn't mean it."
Sunday's grand prix will also see McLaren's Jenson Button return to his homeland, where his best finish is fourth place in 2004 and 2010.
The 2009 drivers' champion is 12 points ahead of his compatriot Hamilton and sits second in the standings, 77 points behind Germany's Vettel.
The 31-year-old is looking forward to experiencing the new-look Silverstone, which has a newly-constructed pit lane and paddock complex and first corner.
"With a new start line, a new first corner and an all-new pit and paddock complex, the new facilities should be fantastic," the former Brawn GP driver said. "I think they'll confirm Silverstone as one of the best circuits in the world."
McLaren have claimed two race triumphs this year, with Hamilton taking the checkered flag in China and Button winning a rain-soaked contest in Canada.
