(CNN Student News) -- January 28, 2014
Today's show explores some traditions and history surrounding the U.S. president's annual State of the Union address. We also visit China for a look at what's considered the world's largest annual mass migration. And we report on a development in the debate over whether some U.S. college athletes should be paid.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were producing online coverage for the State of the Union address, what elements would you include?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. State of the Union
2. Lunar New Year
3. NCAA
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is the name of the annual speech that the U.S. president gives before Congress? Where does this take place? Who sits behind the president? Who else is in attendance? Why is one member of the Cabinet not present? How does the opposing party participate?
2. What is China's biggest social holiday? When does it take place this year? What animal is associated with the upcoming observance?
3. Who is Ed O'Bannon? What is he best known for? What are his current occupations? What action is he pursuing regarding college athletes?
Discussion Questions:
1. According to the video: How is the State of the Union speech a kind of "homework assignment" from the Framers of the Constitution? What topics do you think the president will address in his State of the Union speech tonight? What priorities would you like to see him establish? Why? How do you think the Republican Party should respond?
2. How do the Chinese celebrate their biggest social holiday? What challenges face holiday travelers in the world's most populous nation?
3. According to the video, why is Ed O'Bannon suing the NCAA? What do opponents to this suit say in response? Why do you think O'Bannon believes that this suit is more impactful than his college career was?
4. Do you think that college athletes should be paid? State your rationale.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
