It's arguably one of the largest pieces of Elvis Presley memorabilia ever: a 154.5-acre ranch in Horn Lake, Mississippi, once owned by the king of rock 'n' roll.
Elvis Presley bought the property in February 1967, three months before marrying Priscilla Beaulieu.
And it's on the market, with an asking price of $6.5 million.
"It had a large cross there that Elvis really liked, and a concrete bridge over a 14-acre lake," real estate agent Rodger Motz told CNN.
The property, called the "Elvis Ranch" by locals, is just east of Highway 301 in Horn Lake, about 17 miles south of Memphis, Tennessee.
Presley purchased it in February 1967, three months before he married Priscilla Beaulieu, according to a Graceland spokeswoman. The deed on record was signed by Presley's longtime manager, Col. Tom Parker, said Parker Pickle, Desoto County tax assessor.
There is a small house known as the "Honeymoon Cottage" on the property. Graceland confirmed the newly married Presleys did spend time there following their honeymoon in Palm Springs, California.
The property has been on the market since last month. Its current owners are Dennis McLemore and his brothers.
McLemore said his parents bought the property in 1979 and turned it into a cattle ranch after previous owner-developers had failed to turn it into a resort.
McLemore said he met Priscilla Presley on a winter day in 1985. "I got a call one day that Priscilla was coming up for a visit," he said. "I'd been working on a cow's ear and was covered in blood when she came up. She told me Elvis would have been proud this was a working cattle ranch."
Tours occasionally have driven down from Memphis with passengers who took pictures of the pastures, he said.
At one time, there was a 12-foot wooden fence around the compound with a half-dozen trailers on the grounds, where members of Presley's entourage, the "Memphis Mafia" were housed. "There's still a trailer pad behind the Honeymoon Cottage," McLemore said.
"I remember as a child when Elvis owned it," said Anita Rainey, planning director for the city of Horn Lake. "I had a friend he gave a horse to. She lived across the street to the ranch and woke up one day and they had a pony."
She said she remembers seeing Presley riding a horse along the highway. He was a quiet owner, she said, and the ranch is prime real estate.
"I've been getting a lot of calls from media," Motz said, "and the Europeans are really interested."
However, he said, he doesn't have a serious buyer on the hook and has yet to receive an offer.
