(CNN)He's been dubbed the "Secretary of Defense," but don't expect Tim Howard to be repelling Major League Soccer forwards any time soon.
The 35-year-old says he intends to end his club career at Everton, the club he first joined on loan in 2006.
Howard has been a mainstay in goal for the English Premier League team and if not for a back injury two years ago, likely would have matched -- and exceeded -- Neville Southall's Everton record of consecutive league appearances.
He signed a contract extension until 2018 with the club last April.
"It's the club that I love," the ex MetroStars standout told CNN. "It's been a brilliant relationship with myself and the chairman and both managers -- and with the fans.
"It's a place where I can achieve the things I want to achieve and push myself every day and I am still hungry for the game.
"All of the questions I have been looking for in my career have been answered here. So I think I would like to finish here and then be done.
"I'm living the good life here at Everton and I don't think I really need to change the scenery."
But that doesn't mean Howard plans on missing out on the 2018 World Cup in Russia.
Howard is taking a break from the national team this season to spend more time with his two U.S.-based children though is hoping to return to Jurgen Klinsmann's side and reclaim the starting position from Aston Villa's Brad Guzan.
Howard sparkled for the U.S. at the most recent World Cup in Brazil last year, especially against Belgium in the round of 16 when he made a tournament record 15 saves.
He was even congratulated by U.S. President Barack Obama and earned the nickname, "Secretary of Defense."
"I was physically strong and mentally I felt motivated to continue and so to be quite honest -- I miss it," he said of his international sabbatical.
"I don't know how it's going to end but my plan is to certainly be part of a U.S. team that qualifies for Russia and to be in Russia and be part of that team.
"How it works with selection and my standing within the team, it's hard to say this far out. But my passion, my drive is to be there, then fly home and finish -- go to the beach."
A calf injury ruled Howard out of the Everton lineup for nearly two months before he returned last week in a 1-0 loss at Chelsea.
He insisted that talk of relegation -- Everton stands 12th, five points above the drop zone -- was "nonsense."
Everton, some would say, overachieved under Roberto Martinez last season in finishing fifth.
Talking of managers, Howard hasn't forgotten the man who signed him, David Moyes.
The Scot didn't last a season when he replaced Manchester United legend Alex Ferguson at Old Trafford but is now having success in Spain with Real Sociedad.
"When Alex Ferguson left I think there was a lot of people probably in the media (licking their) chops, excited for and looking for the slaughter that was about to come -- that was impending because unless the next manager came in and was absolutely perfect that was what was going to happen," said Howard, who moved to Everton from United.
"David Moyes is one hell of a tough character. If anyone can withstand that and brush it off and move on it's him.
"He has the ability to motivate men like nothing I have ever seen. I have spoken with him since he's been in Spain. He's an incredible human being. The way he treats his players is fantastic."
