A 65-year-old man's remains were stashed in containers across South Florida, police said Thursday, releasing the victim's identity one day after charging another man in his murder.
Police began looking into the case last month after finding body parts strewn around three counties in the southern part of the state.
On Thursday, Fort Lauderdale police said in a statement that those remains belonged to Warren Danzig, whose last known mailing address was in Davie, about 10 miles southwest of downtown Fort Lauderdale.
Police contended a day earlier that Jamie Saffran killed Danzig sometime between November 2 and November 5 and then dismembered his body. Saffran then stole Danzig's credit card and used it to pay his own daughter's college tuition and buy tires for his Jeep, authorities said.
According to the Broward County Medical Examiners Office, Danzig died from "blunt force trauma."
The police affidavit says the gruesome discoveries of his remains began in Fort Lauderdale on November 6, when police responded to a call about a suspicious container. Inside that bucket they found human legs and arms, poorly masked by concrete.
Additional agencies became involved in the investigation as more body parts -- which included the victim's head and torso -- were found in similar containers in three counties, the affidavit says.
"As the multijurisdictional investigation progressed, further evidence led investigators to suspect Saffran's involvement in the homicide," Fort Lauderdale police said.
During a search at Saffran's home, authorities discovered a shovel covered with concrete and a sledgehammer "that presumptively tested for human blood," the affidavit says. They also found two bags of cement and several sharp tools, it says.
DNA testing conclusively linked the strewn body parts to Danzig, authorities say.
Saffran told detectives that he and the victim had been friends for several years. He added that the two even shared a home mailing address, although Saffran claimed that Danzig more recently lived in the Dominican Republic. According to the police report, Saffran said the two last saw each other about October 31.
InSession's Adam Blank contributed to this report.
