Novak Djokovic has plenty of reasons to feel on top of the world -- but one more victory at the ATP World Tour finals will mean he ends 2014 as the leading ranked player on the planet.
The current World No.1 cruised past Stan Wawrinka in straight sets in his latest group match on Wednesday to secure his second successive victory at London's O2 Arena and take his astonishing indoor record to 29 matches without defeat.
Djokovic, who got married and became a father for the first time earlier this year, lost his serve in the opening game of the contest before roaring back to claim victory with the style and panache with which his admirers have become so accustomed.
"It was a great match, no question," Djokovic said in his post-match interview.
"The opening three games were quite long but after that I managed to get back in the first set. I swung through my shots and he made a lot of unforced errors. He wasn't close to his best and I succeeded very well with what I wanted to do."
Not once has a singles tie at this year's tournament made it to three sets and this never looked likely to become the first.
This 6-3 6-0 triumph in just over an hour meant the crowd was treated to yet another one man show.
And yet, Wawrinka could scarcely have made a better start to the contest, breaking his opponent in the opening game and consolidating by serving to take the second.
But from there on it was all Djokovic as the Serb star reeled off 17 of the next 18 points.
In fact, Wawrinka only managed to win another four points in the opening set and just the seven in the second.
The seven-time grand slam winner is hoping to win his third consecutive title in London and it would take some showing to stop him.
Djokovic has won 59 of his 68 matches this calendar year and is 17-5 against the world's top 10 players.
He can seal the end of year No.1 spot when he faces Tomas Berdych in his final group game on Friday.
Berdych bounces back
In the day's other game, Berdych cruised to a 6-3 6-1 victory over U.S Open champion Marin Cilic.
Berdych, who was beaten in his opening match by Wawrinka, required just 74 minutes to see off a disappointing Cilic.
The Czech could yet qualify for the semifinals with victory over Djokovic in his final group game.
"I think today was more about fighting and getting through it," Berdych said.
"It's not my first year. I have the experience of losing the first match in the past and I know how to come back. I think that was the biggest difference.
"I just want to try to bring my best tennis and we'll see what happens. I hope I can have a great match."
Cilic has endured a difficult time at the finals having lost both of his matches in straight sets.
The 26-year-old, who has won just six games in his two matches, made 30 unforced errors during Wednesday's defeat.
"It's disappointing to play like this. I was not expecting it. But my body feels a little bit tired on the court," Cilic told reporters.
"Especially with these guys at this kind of level, even small mistakes, or if you're not at your best, the outcome is not going to be going in your favor."
Thursday's action sees Roger Federer take on Andy Murray, while Kei Nishikori will be hoping for a second victory at this year's tournament when he faces Milos Raonic.
