Severe storms tore through the Midwest and South Friday into Saturday, killing at least 39 people.
The National Weather Service confirms 42 tornadoes hit 10 states, stretching from Alabama to Ohio.
This comes only days after another deadly line of storms spawned multiple tornadoes, damaging hundreds of homes and businesses across seven states.
Disaster relief organizations are mobilizing across the region to provide aid to survivors and begin cleanup efforts.
Kansas
An EF2 tornado struck the small community of Harveyville, Kansas, Tuesday night during the first round of severe weather.
Recovery operations and debris removal began Thursday, and over 500 volunteers and 55 private contractors turned out to help, according the Kansas Adjutant General's Department.
"There's a lot of devastation. It's really, really rough. You're looking at people's lives," one volunteer told CNN affiliate KTKA. "The families that are here are really grateful that we're just here to help."
The United Way of the Plains is helping coordinate volunteers. Those interested can register by e-mail to harveyvilletornado@gmail.com.
The organization says no clothing donations are needed at this time, but anyone in the area with large equipment or construction materials can register by calling 2-1-1. Officials will contact you if the items are needed.
Missouri
The severe storms continued through parts of Missouri early Wednesday morning.
No deaths have been reported in the area, but the city of Branson suffered significant damage to its popular entertainment district.
Several relief organizations responded immediately to provide meals and shelter to those in need.
The AmeriCorps St. Louis Emergency Response Team set up volunteer reception centers and is coordinating efforts to remove debris.
For more information on volunteering with AmeriCorps response efforts in Taney and Stone counties, log on to the Volunteer Branson website.
Illinois
An EF4 tornado with 170 mph winds leveled parts of Harrisburg, Illinois, Wednesday, killing at least six.
Hundreds of homes were damaged or destroyed and about 100 people were injured by the storm, according sheriff's deputies.
AmeriCares is one of the organizations providing assistance in Illinois. The organization is preparing a shipment of medical supplies and disaster relief items for a Harrisburg clinic if needed.
AmeriCares is preparing additional medical and emergency assistance for other affected states, including tetanus vaccines for survivors and first responders helping with cleanup efforts.
Operation Blessing International is also providing aid to storm victims and first responders in Illinois.
Volunteers with the organization brought a convoy of vehicles to the area, including trailers with construction supplies and a mobile kitchen that can serve thousands of hot meals.
Harrisburg Police Chief Bob Smith directed anyone interested in volunteering with cleanup efforts in the area to call Operation Blessing at 618-294-9600.
Indiana
Multiple tornadoes touched down in southern Indiana during a second round of severe weather on Friday, including an EF4 that struck the town of Henryville.
An EF2 tornado devastated the nearby town of Marysville.
"We have whole communities and whole neighborhoods that are completely gone," Indiana State Police Sgt. Jerry Goodin said.
Local agencies are still assessing the damage, but the large volunteer response has already made an impact.
"It's been overwhelming the response with people wanting to help, and we really appreciate that. But right now we don't need any volunteers," Goodin said. "We feel that there will be a need for volunteers later on as this cleanup continues. As that need arises, we'll put that information out there."
The American Red Cross is among the relief organizations providing aid in the area. The organization has opened shelters and is providing meals to displaced residents.
Anyone wishing to volunteer with shelter operations must complete an application at the Clark County Red Cross.
Scott County set up a Disaster Relief Fund for all affected communities in the area. Donations will help meet the immediate needs of individuals in Scott, Washington, Clark and Jefferson Counties.
The fund has already helped provide items like blankets, socks and kerosene to local residents in need, said volunteer David Coates at the Disaster Relief Center in Scottsburg.
Tax deductible donations payable to the Disaster Relief Fund can be mailed to P.O. Box 112, Scottsburg, Indiana 47170.
Kentucky
Areas throughout Kentucky are picking up the pieces from several tornadoes, but overnight snowfall is complicating cleanup efforts.
In the hard-hit town of West Liberty, Morgan County ARH Hospital was heavily damaged. All second floor windows of the hospital were blown out and doors were torn off their hinges.
The storms caused at least 21 deaths and widespread damage across several counties in the state.
"Nobody knows what to do now really. It's just devastation," West Liberty resident Lana Prater told CNN's Rob Marciano.
After completing work assignments in Kansas, a Veteran Emergency Response Team from Team Rubicon relocated to West Liberty to assist local authorities and other relief organizations.
The team will help with search and rescue operations as needed and debris removal.
Samaritan's Purse is also assisting with cleanup efforts in West Liberty.
The organization sent a tractor-trailer and volunteers with emergency supplies and equipment to the town. Four other trucks are stationed in other affected areas across the Midwest.
Samaritan's Purse is also asking volunteers to help with cleanup efforts in multiple areas. For more information, go online.
Tennessee
The National Weather Service confirmed an EF3 and multiple EF2 tornadoes cut through several counties in Tennessee, injuring at least 29 people.
The Salvation Army responded quickly to help storm victims and first responders in Tennessee and other affected states.
The organization served more than 200 meals at an evacuee center in Chattanooga and set up a shelter at the Cleveland office.
As the lines of storms stretched east Friday into Saturday, severe weather and tornadoes devastated other communities in Georgia, Ohio, Alabama and Ohio, causing severe damage and killing two people
For a more complete list of organizations helping tornado victims across the Midwest and South, log on to CNN.com/Impact.
