A 6-year-old boy abducted Wednesday in Las Vegas, Nevada, has been found safe, the Las Vegas police department announced early Sunday.
"Cole (Puffinburger) has been found, he is safe and in our custody," Capt. Vince Cannito told reporters in an early morning news conference.
Cannito said that while detectives were canvassing Las Vegas neighborhoods Saturday night with flyers about the boy's abduction, they got a report that a young boy who matched Cole's description was seen walking alone on a sidewalk on the city's east side.
"Detectives rushed there, found the boy and confirmed it was Cole," Cannito said.
"It's just a blessing that this child has been found and he's in extremely good condition," the captain added.
Cole's father, Robert Puffinburger, said the emotion he felt after being informed that his son was safe was "indescribable."  Watch Cole's tearful father speak about hearing the news »
"I'm just glad he's safe," Puffinburger said at the news conference, his voice breaking. "I can't wait to see him!"
Cole was snatched Wednesday in what police are calling a drug-related kidnapping. Three armed men tied up his mother and her fiance and ransacked the home, taking the boy when no money was found, police said.
A nationwide Amber Alert was canceled because police believed it had "run its course," Cannito said Saturday.
Police say Cole's grandfather, Clemons F. Tinnemeyer, 51, had been involved in "significant drug dealing" and may have taken millions of dollars from drug dealers. Authorities say the kidnapping may have been in retaliation for the theft.
Tinnemeyer was arrested Friday in Riverside, California, where he was being held as a material witness. He has been interviewed, along with an unidentified second person, in connection with the case.
Cannito asked for the public's help in finding Jesus Gastelum, a third person of interest.
In his Sunday news conference, Cannito said the part of the investigation involving Cole's abduction is now concluded.
"The remainder of the investigation now shifts, the focus now goes on to the drug dealing and potential extortion," he said.
Copyright 2008 CNN. All rights reserved.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press contributed to this report.
