An embattled Nevada councilwoman e-mailed a friend about items intended for her mother and called police shortly before they found her and her husband dead in an apparent murder-suicide, police in Mesquite said Wednesday.
"Detectives were advised that Bill Fairchild was the victim of a homicide-suicide. The crime scene and autopsy were consistent that Bill was deceased approximately an hour before Donna," said Chief Douglas L. Law in a statement after the autopsy. Each of the Fairchilds suffered a single gunshot wound.
The bodies were found Tuesday morning, hours before Donna Fairchild was to attend a City Council meeting and face possible sanctions over a travel expense voucher and public comments.
A neighbor told CNN on Wednesday she had lunch with Donna Fairchild on Monday and was the recipient of a box left by the councilwoman, apparently on the morning of the shootings.
According to police, Donna Fairchild contacted City Attorney Cheryl Truman Hunt around 8:30 p.m. Monday to discuss an opportunity to meet with the mayor and council in order to tender her resignation before the meeting. The city attorney at 10 p.m. confirmed with Fairchild a Tuesday afternoon meeting with the mayor and council.
At a news conference, police in this city along Interstate 15 near the Arizona border provided a timeline of the events that led to the shooting deaths.
Sometime late Monday or early Tuesday, Donna Fairchild dropped off a box at the friend's house, Law said.
"At 4:20 a.m., an email was sent by Donna to a friend to say she left a note with a box on her friend's porch to be sent to Donna's mother," the statement said. "At 4:33 a.m., Police Dispatch received a 911 call from Donna Fairchild which gave her address, said her door was unlocked and that she would be 'post-suicide.' "
"At 4:35 a.m., officers and detectives arrived on scene and located Donna and Bill Fairchild in the back bedroom and found each with a single gunshot wound. Both were deceased."
Toxicology tests conducted by the Clark County Coroner's Office were expected to take four to six weeks, according to the city.
The city released the audio of the 911 call, in which Donna Fairchild gave the address, said the couple was in the bedroom, the front door was unlocked and "I am post-suicide." The police dispatcher said, "And what's going on there?"
There was no audible response.
Melanie Giarratana said she had known the Fairchilds for about 10 years and enjoyed a lunch Monday with Donna Fairchild.
"It was wonderful," said Giarratana, who has been active in local issues and economic development in this resort town that features golf resorts and casinos.
Donna Fairchild had told her she had made a mistake by filing a $94.60 mileage expense form for a trip city officials said she did not make, Giarratana said. But the councilwoman said she never signed for the check.
Giarratana said she had no inkling of what was to occur the next morning.
Donna Fairchild forwarded her an e-mail joke around 8 p.m. Monday. The councilwoman sent her another e-mail around 4:20 a.m. Tuesday about the box, but Giarratana did not see the e-mail until 7 a.m., when she found the package outside her home.
According to Giarratana, Donna Fairchild wrote her, "I have left a box full of items for my Mom by your front door. Please make sure she gets it! I know this will never make sense. I am sorry. Thank you for being my BFF."
Bound in rubber bands, the box contained jewelry, cash and a note expressing apologies, Giarratana said.
Mesquite city spokesman Bryan Dangerfield said Tuesday that a note and a 9mm handgun were found at the scene.
"The content of the note will not be disclosed until the investigation is complete," Dangerfield said.
City Manager Timothy Hacker said he believed that Donna Fairchild was concerned about the agenda items, according to CNN Las Vegas affiliate KLAS.
Fairchild, who was a candidate for mayor, told the Desert Valley Times last week that she would not comment on the allegations against her but instead would talk about them Tuesday evening.
Mayor Susan Holecheck and the city had planned to ask the City Council to consider sanctioning Fairchild through possible reprimand, removal from boards or expulsion for filing the $94.60 mileage reimbursement request with the city for a January 4 Nevada Development Authority board meeting she allegedly did not attend, according to an item on the council agenda.
Fairchild allegedly violated the city's code of conduct and its personnel policy, and she allegedly presented a fraudulent claim to a public officer, Hunt wrote in a January 18 memo.
Holecheck, who is seeking re-election, and Hunt also wanted the City Council to consider removing Fairchild as the city's representative to the Nevada Development Authority board of directors.
According to a filing on the agenda, comments Fairchild made about the authority in a newspaper article "were negative towards this agency, and deemed incompatible with the mission of the agency and good working relations with other NDA board members."
A January 7 article of the Desert Valley Times includes interviews and comments from Mesquite mayoral candidates.
In the article, Fairchild said, "We just got a bill from the Nevada Development Authority: It costs $7,500 to belong. There was one thing that came out of the NDA, and that was Do It Best. That was huge for the community, but I don't think we're getting the bang for our buck."
In the article, Fairchild said that Mesquite should be doing most of its own marketing.
NDA Executive Director Somer Hollingsworth wrote Holecheck that Fairchild -- who was the city's representative to the board since July 2009 -- should have brought her concerns to him, rather than airing them publicly, especially since she was a member of the NDA executive committee, according to an e-mail attached with the filing.
According to the agenda item, Fairchild could have discussed her issues with the NDA if she had attended the January 4 board meeting.
Donna Fairchild served on the City Council from 2001 to 2007 and was re-elected in 2009. She moved to Mesquite with Bill Fairchild in 1999 after they both retired from the Denver Police Department, the city said. In Mesquite, Bill Fairchild worked at a recreation center and was a member of the Virgin Valley Honor Guard and the Veterans of Foreign War.
The Fairchilds were married for 21 years, the city said.
"They had an excellent marriage," Giarratana said.
The friend of the couple said she does not believe the issues with the city were enough to push Donna Fairchild over the edge.
"I cannot figure out what happened between 8 p.m. and 4:20 a.m.," Giarratana said.
She said Donna Fairchild wanted to continue her mayoral campaign and deal with the issues, but Giarratana was unaware that the councilwoman had apparently planned to resign Tuesday.
"The town is in total shock," Giarratana said. "The town is weeping."
CNN's Phil Gast contributed to this report.
