China's Li Na recovered from 5-0 down in the opening set to defeat third seed Kim Clijsters 7-6 6-3 in the final of the Sydney International tournament on Friday.
World number three Clijsters looked destined to power through the first set, after taking just 19 minutes to open up her advantage, only for eighth seed Li to fight back to eventually win it 7-3 in the tie-break.
Clijsters, 27, had won four of her previous five meetings with Li, but the world number 11 secured the second set to win her first WTA Tour title since June 2010.
"She's definitely a player who has every quality to win a grand slam," Clijsters said of her opponent, a semifinalist at last year's Australian Open, on the WTA's website.
"She's a contender who probably isn't being focused on enough. Mentally she maybe gets a little bit nervous in big matches, but she can beat any top player out there when she's playing her best."
U.S. Open champion Clijsters would have moved up to second in the world rankings with a win, and the Belgian admitted she was not on top form at Sydney Olympic Park.
"I wasn't serving great ... gradually you just try to fight, but then it becomes frustrating when you know you're not playing your best."
In the men's draw, Serbia's Viktor Troicki is set to meet Gilles Simon of France in Saturday's final after a 6-4 7-6 (7-4) triumph over Florian Mayer.
Despite his win, fourth seed Troicki explained how he had struggled with the weather conditions.
The Australian Open should be in February!
"I would say the match was pretty bad," the world number 30 told the tournament's website.
"It was quite windy. We were both struggling with our games. I wasn't so happy with my performance, but still I'm happy that I won. There was a lot mistakes from both sides."
Simon progressed at the expense of Latvian third seed Ernests Gulbis with a 7-6 (7-1) 6-0 win in 73 minutes.
Elsewhere, Australia's Jarmila Groth beat her doubles partner, Czech fifth seed Klara Zakopalova, 6-3 6-2 to progress into the final of the Hobart International tournament.
It will be sixth seed Groth's first title match on home soil and she will face America's Bethanie Mattek-Sands, who disposed of China's Peng Shuai 4-6 6-1 6-1 to reach her first WTA Tour final.
