(CNN)  -- Former U.S. Open champion Juan Martin del Potro continued his impressive comeback with a straight-sets win over Radek Stepanek in the first round of the Masters Series event at Indian Wells.
The Argentine posted a 6-4 6-0 victory over his 67th-ranked opponent Thursday to set up a second-round meeting with defending champion Ivan Ljubicic of Croatia.
"I broke his serve very soon and took confidence with my serve. I played a good match," del Potro told the official ATP Tour website.
After winning the hard-court grand slam in New York in 2009, the 22-year-old missed most of 2010 with a wrist injury which saw him plummet down the rankings from a career-high of four.
However, since capturing the title at Delray Beach last week without dropping a set, del Potro has climbed more than 400 spots in the rankings to 90th, but admits his injury still troubles him.
"Sometimes I feel a little bad sensation in my wrist, especially in humid weather, so I have many things to fight, but I'm glad with my present," he said.
Meanwhile, 21-year-old American hope Donald Young earned his first ever win in a Masters event as he came back from a set down to defeat Italian veteran Potito Starace 2-6 6-3 6-3.
Young will next play world No. 5 Andy Murray, who was given a first-round bye.
Two other home favorites joined Young in the second round, with Ryan Sweeting defeating Spaniard Marcel Granollers 6-4 6-1 and Tim Smyczek rallying past Ukrainian Illya Marchenko 2-6 6-3 6-2.
In other men's first-round results, Serbia's Janko Tipsarevic raced past German Tobias Kamke 6-2, 6-0, big-serving Croatian Ivo Karlovic fired 17 aces in a 7-6 6-7 6-2 win over Australian qualifier Marinko Matosevic, and promising Lithuanian Richard Berankis recovered from the loss of the opening set to defeat American qualifier Alex Bogomolov Jr. 1-6 6-3 6-4.
In the women's draw, former world No. 1 Dinara Safina overcame an early break of serve to defeat Spain's Arantxa Parra Santonja 6-3 6-3.
The 108th-ranked Russian displayed flashes of the brilliance that took her to the top of the rankings in 2009 as she set up a second-round match with Slovakia's Daniela Hantuchova.
"I'm getting more and more positive. I'm working day by day and trying to get better and with the hard work I believe I will get better -- nobody forgets how to play," Safina told the WTA website.
The 24-year-old will aim to record back-to-back wins on the WTA Tour for the first time since September last year when she takes on 26th seed Hantuchova, who was awarded an opening bye.
There was also good news for the young American female players in action on Thursday. First, Sloane Stephens set up a meeting with world No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki following a 6-4 6-2 defeat of compatriot Janie Hampton.
She was joined in the second round by fellow wildcard Christina McHale after the 18-year-old beat Uzbekistan's Akgul Amanmuradova 6-3 6-1, while U.S. Fed Cup players Bethanie Mattek Sands and Melanie Oudin also progressed after the pair recorded respective straight-sets wins over Russian duo Vera Dushevina and Elena Vesnina.
In other women's matches, Britain's Elena Baltacha defeated Italian Roberta Vinci in three sets and Poland's Urszula Radwanska prevailed against up-and-coming Serbian teenager Bojana Jovanovski in a final-set tiebreak.
