(CNN)  -- Rock group R.E.M. debuted a song from its upcoming album Wednesday on CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360°" program.
R.E.M. singer Michael Stipe says the band was honored to be involved with the "Planet in Peril" project.
The song "Until the Day Is Done" also will appear later this month in "Planet in Peril," a four-hour CNN documentary that looks at environmental crises around the world.
"With 'Planet in Peril,' Anderson Cooper and his team have done an amazing job capturing global eco-devastation," said R.E.M singer Michael Stipe in a news release. "The images in the film are beautiful, while at the same time heartbreaking and frightening. We are honored to have our song included in this monumental project."
This isn't the first time R.E.M. has worked with Cooper. The band premiered its video "Bad Day" on the show in 2002.
"Planet in Peril" executive producer Charlie Moore said the group's longstanding commitment to environmental causes made them a natural choice for the project.  Watch a trailer for "Planet in Peril" and hear "Until the Day Is Done" »
Moore said they contacted R.E.M. earlier this year to see if the group would be willing to write a song to go with the documentary, and the band happened to be in the studio working on their upcoming album.
"We were able to hear some of the stuff they were doing and this particular song fits perfectly for the project," Moore said.
He said the group, their management and their record label were eager to be involved.
"It's sort of serendipitous that we were able to work something out with them," Moore said. "All the stars were lined up for this to happen, they were in the studio, they were working on a song that fit with the feeling that the pictures portray and they really match up very well. And we like their music, we like their work and are just thrilled that they wanted to be a part of it."
"Planet in Peril" features CNN anchor Anderson Cooper, chief medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta and "Animal Planet" host and wildlife biologist Jeff Corwin.
The two-part documentary was filmed in 13 countries and focuses on the issues of climate change, deforestation, species loss and overpopulation.
CNN will air "Planet in Peril" on October 23 and 24 at 9 p.m.  ET. It also will be broadcast on CNN International.
In a message on the R.E.M.'s Web site, the group said it had finished recording songs for the new album, which is scheduled to be released next year.
The band also is releasing a live CD/DVD on Tuesday with 22-tracks recorded at a 2005 concert in Dublin, Ireland. E-mail to a friend
