Sure, the wedding was stunning. The doves were released on cue, you didn't stumble on your vows, and your aunt Caroline stayed sober until after the toasts. But something was off: Your special day didn't play as well on social media as you were hoping.
Where were all the RTs for that hilarious bouquet-catching Vine? Why didn't anyone Instagram the handmade Mason-jar floral arrangements in the restrooms? And only 10 likes for the first blurry picture of the new couple? Please.
The W hotel chain is here to help. For a mere $3,000, couples getting hitched at any of the four W hotels in New York can hire their very own "social media wedding concierge" to make sure every moment of their special day is properly immortalized in tweets, Instagrams and Facebook posts.
This concierge will be involved with the wedding from the very beginning, acting as an amateur Instagram-ographer, documenting bits of the planning process such as cake tasting and dress shopping. He or she will even help create inspirational Pinterest boards.
On the wedding day, the concierge will live-tweet and Instagram the entire affair. They'll make sure your guests all use the same hashtag while posting from their phones during the ceremony and reception. (Is there anything more embarrassing than sloppy cousins using #ashleyandbrock instead of #ashleyandbrockforever?)
When it's over, the hotel will compile the best posts into a book.
"If you want to build a social media footprint of your big day (and this is something people aim to do; we've even had people ask us how they can get their wedding to 'trend'!), That's where we come in," said Alyssa Kiefer, W's head of global social media.
Kiefer says the W is responding to increasing interest among guests who want to integrate social media into their weddings. The hotel has even seen couples updating their Facebook statuses at the altar.
Wedding photos: When snap-happy guests go too far
The idea of paying a "concierge" $3,000 to live-tweet your wedding was widely mocked Wednesday on Twitter. But like every other major life event, including new jobs, new babies and envy-inducing vacations, weddings are increasingly playing out on social media. If it wasn't shared publicly, did it really happen?
In fairness, there are some practical reasons couples might want to share every detail of a wedding online. Perhaps an aging grandmother or far-away relatives can't make the trip but would like to follow along. (And if your aging grandmother is on Twitter, more power to her.)
On the other hand, some brides and grooms may see their wedding less as an opportunity to make a lifelong commitment in front of loved ones and more as a savvy way to grab attention. If you can afford it, a lavish wedding is a great way to fit in a bit of shameless self-promotion.
A social "concierge" is the opposite of another recent trend sweeping weddings: asking guests to unplug completely. Some wedding photographers, irked by having to jostle with snapshot-seeking guests, have pushed for phone-free ceremonies.
"In theory, one would hope it would be a service that seamlessly could fit into a wedding, but I worry it could very easily become a distraction and hindrance to all involved," wedding photographer Corey Ann said.
Ann has seen a lot of younger wedding guests embracing dedicated hashtags. But she fears that could leave out older family members and guests who aren't updating social media accounts.
The W hotel will also help couples hoping to unplug on their wedding day, if that's their preference. The planners can collect phones from guests as they arrive.
"To some, this may seem a bit over the top, and we're OK with that," Kiefer said. "We're sure couples balked at the idea of traditional wedding planners years ago, and now you wouldn't think of planning a wedding without one."
