Tottenham Hotspur humiliated Wigan 9-1 with England striker Jermain Defoe scoring five to move into the Champions League spots in the English Premier League.
The incredible rout sees them draw level on points with North London rivals Arsenal and into fourth place ahead of Aston Villa, who they visit next weekend.
Defoe's five equaled a Premier League record and, along with Manchester United's 9-0 thrashing of Ipswich Town in the 1994/95 season, it is the most goals scored by a Premier League side in a single game.
The highest tally recorded by a team in English football league history is 13.
Fellow England striker Peter Crouch scored the only goal in the first half before the floodgates opened, Defoe grabbing his first two before Wigan's Paul Scharner replied with what looked a handball.
Defoe completed his hat-trick only a minute later on the 58th before Aaron Lennon made it 5-1, with Defoe then adding his fourth.
A final blitz from Tottenham gave Defoe his fifth, with David Bentley's deflected effort off Chris Kirkland and Niko Kranjcar completing the rout with double figures looking on the cards when the referee ended the misery for the visitors.
Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp said Defoe, who was returning after a suspension, was a "fantastic talent" and paid tribute to his side's eight-goal salvo after the break.
"We came out in the second half fantastic, pressed them worked them and took the opportunities," he told Sky Sports News.
In other English Premier League action on Sunday, Blackburn Rovers beat Bolton Wanderers 2-0 away to climb up to 11th in the table.
Without manager Sam Allardyce who is to undergo a heart operation, Blackburn went in front through a David Dunn curled effort before a mix-up with his goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen saw Bolton's Sam Ricketts head into his own net.
In the late kickoff, Portmouth stayed bottom after losing 1-0 at Stoke, who grabbed a 74th minute winner through Ricardo Fuller after great work by winger Matthew Etherington.
Pompey, who lost England goalkeeper David James to injury in the warm up, missed an eighth-minute penalty through Kevin-Prince Boateng and had chances to secure at least a point at the Britannia Stadium.
