Well, that didn't last long.
No sooner had speculation heated up that Disney was planning a "Frozen" sequel, to be titled "Strange Magic," than the studio sent out a news release throwing cold water all over that theory.
Turns out, "Strange Magic" is the title of a new animated movie from Lucasfilm Ltd.
" 'Strange Magic' is a madcap fairy tale musical inspired by 'A Midsummer Night's Dream,' " the statement says. "Popular songs from the past six decades help tell the tale of a colorful cast of goblins, elves, fairies and imps, and their hilarious misadventures sparked by the battle over a powerful potion."
Days after just about every other child in America dressed like a character from the hit Disney film for Halloween, the Internet thought it had cracked the the case of the possible title for a "Frozen 2." The film has grossed so much money (more than $1 billion) and become such a fixture in pop culture that there is little doubt that there will be a follow-up.
Stitch Kingdom, a Disney fan site, posted a theory tied to the recent domain name acquisitions by the studio.
"Disney today registered several domain names that in no uncertain terms point to a film title -- Strange Magic," the site reports. "But the strangest bit of it all is that there appears to be little-to-no mention of it anywhere to be found on the interwebs -- at least if you're not talking about the Electric Light Orchestra (ELO) song and really, for all we know, we just might be."
The site found a link to "Frozen" in that the words "strange magic" are referenced by both the Duke of Weselton and Grand Pabbie in the movie. A TV ad for the film includes the duke saying, "Strange magic has frozen this land."
But alas, it has nothing to do with a "Frozen" sequel.
"Strange Magic" is set to be released January 23.
It's not like "Frozen" fans won't have plenty else to keep them enthralled.
Random House has announced that it will be publishing a Frozen book series targeted at young readers that will serve as a written sequel to the film. There is also "Frozen Fever," a short animated sequel due out in 2015, and a Broadway musical based on the 2013 film.
