A U.S.-born Muslim cleric and his son are exploring the possibility of legal action after they said they were prevented from traveling aboard an American Airlines flight from New York to Charlotte, North Carolina, their attorney says.
Al Amin Abdul Latif and his son, Abu Bakar, were heading on Friday to an annual conference on Islamophobia. They are the second pair of imams barred, at least initially, from traveling to the conference that day.
Also Friday, Imams Masudur Rahman and Mohamed Zaghloul -- both clad in Islamic attire -- were told to leave the aircraft as it was taxiing toward the runway.
All four are represented by attorney Mo Idlibi, who said that none of them had done anything out of the ordinary, nor were they praying or chanting.
Idlibi said the elder Abdul Latif and his son have reached out to American Airlines for "accountability of the embarrassment and humiliation" that they said they endured.
"Imams have rights," said Idlibi. "They know they have rights. And they will hold these entities accountable if that's what it comes to."
He added that the incident was unlawful and is "unequivocally a civil rights issue."
American Airlines responded in a written statement, saying "there was no ill intent on the part of any of our employees involved in this."
"It was a situation that just got very complicated very quickly. Because we don't discuss security matters, you may wish to talk with TSA."
A spokeswoman for the Transportation Security Administration said "this passenger (Al Amin Abdul Latif) was properly screened by TSA and cleared to fly."
"TSA did not deny the passenger boarding," said spokeswoman Kristin Lee.
According to the pair's attorney, the younger Abdul Latif was initially permitted to board the plane. But his father was instructed to meet with a gate agent to book a separate flight.
Shortly thereafter, federal agents then boarded the American Airlines plane and removed the younger Abdul Latif as well.
Neither man was given an explanation, their attorney says.
The younger Abdul Latif was permitted on the following day to fly to Charlotte. His father, however, was again denied and was compelled to drive instead.
According to an American Airlines statement, an airline has the legal authority to refuse transport to an individual it deems unsafe, but airlines cannot by law refuse transport based solely on a person's race, color, national origin, religion, ethnicity or sex.
"Ultimately, the airline must be able to establish that the pilot's determination to refuse to transport an individual was not arbitrary or capricious in order for the airline to fulfill its obligations under the statute," said American Airlines spokesman Ed Martelle.
The incident has sparked controversy.
"That kind of hype and hysteria reflect what's worst about our country," said Zead Ramadan, board president of the Council on American Islamic Relations-New York.
Ramadan points to last week's killing of al Qaeda terrorist leader Osama bin Laden as a reason for what he calls "an uptick" in racial profiling against Muslims.
"There has been a spike," Ramadan said. "Even in grade schools, we've seen more bullying."
The news comes as New Yorkers and others around the country tune in to media coverage of heightened security measures in the wake of bin Laden's death.
