The eye of the Tiger will be on Lindsey Vonn as she continues the road to recovery -- and to the Winter Olympics -- Saturday.
The American skier will have the support of golf star Tiger Woods as she competes in the downhill World Cup race at the French ski resort of Val d'Isere.
Vonn made a successful return to racing earlier this month after undergoing reconstructive surgery on her right knee, an injury that was aggravated again in a training run in November.
The 29-year-old had a best finish of fifth at Canada's Lake Louise course but hopes to make further progress on the French snow.
For his part, Woods explained in a blog on his official website that he had decided to pack up his golf clubs for now and play a cheerleading role.
"I'm going to put my clubs away for a while to spend more time with my kids and support my girlfriend Lindsey Vonn as she tries to prepare for the Sochi Olympics," the 14-time major winner said.
"Having experienced reconstructive surgery on my knee, it's really hard to explain to anybody unless you've been through it.
"I've had my share of experiences in that regard -- unfortunately -- but I think it helps her in a sense because she can bounce ideas off me about what to expect.
"We see our sports through the same looking glass in how we approach them. We both work very hard and are prepared for our seasons.
"And when we're ready to go, we give it everything we possibly have and there's no holding back. I think that's some of our commonalities.
"But she has to be way more aggressive in her sport than I have to be in mine. You're trying to make your way down a mountain at 80-plus mph, and you have to have the adrenaline and the aggressiveness to do it.
"For me, I'm trying to tone everything down mentally."
Woods and Vonn went public with their relationship in March and, although their one-year anniversary is approaching, the pair have their fingers crossed that they will be celebrating another landmark before then.
Vonn is the Olympic downhill champion and wants to be fit enough to defend her title at the Winter Olympics which take place in the Russian resort of Sochi in February.
"As far as Lindsey competing in Sochi, we're very hopeful," Woods commented. "It all depends on how that knee is..."
