(CNN Student News) -- March 10, 2014
A mystery surrounds the disappearance of a passenger plane in Southeast Asia, and we'll start off today by telling you what was unusual about the flight. We also look at some of the first wartime photographs ever taken and contrast them with current tension in the same region. Other stories include a survey of college freshmen and the outcome of a marathon spelling bee.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How do you think that images taken by photojournalists in war have changed over time?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. flight data recorder
2. Crimean War
3. financial aid
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What do we know about Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? What mystery surrounds this flight? What is the first priority for investigators?
2. According to the video, from what conflict are the first official photographs of war? Who fought in this war? When did it take place? What was the most famous image to emerge from this war? Why is this image controversial? What famous poem was written about a battle in this conflict?
3. What does a new UCLA survey tell us about what factor students consider "very important" when choosing a college? According to the survey, how might this factor impact what colleges students are actually attending?
4. What's unique about the "Smart Home" seen in the video? What are some of the things this home can do? How does the owner "talk to" the house?
Discussion Questions:
1. If you were investigating the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, what initial questions might guide your investigation? How would you go about finding answers to those questions?
2. In the study of history, what are some examples of primary sources? Why are primary sources, like the photos from the Crimean War, valuable? What kinds of information might primary sources provide that secondary sources cannot?
3. If you plan to go to college, what factors are foremost in your mind as you decide where to go? If cost is a concern, where might you go to find out what your options are for financial aid?
4. What might be some benefits of a programmable home? Can you think of any downsides? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
