Wolfsburg sparked wild celebrations when they clinched their first German Bundesliga crown after thrashing beaten UEFA Cup finalists Werder Bremen 5-1 on Saturday.
Wolfsburg spark the club's first championship celebrations with a final-day thrashing of Werder Bremen.
The game was effectively settled after 26 minutes when Sebastian Proedl's own goal put the hosts 3-0 up after strikes from Zvejezdan Misimovic after six minutes and Grafite on 15.
Diego pulled one back after 31 minutes for Bremen who looked weary from their extra-time defeat to Shakhtar Donetsk on Wednesday night.
Grafite's second of the game 11 minutes into the second half and a fifth from highly-rated Edin Dzeko after 74 capped a memorable occasion for Wolfsburg.
Winning the 'salad bowl' is a fitting send-off for coach Felix Magath, who was overseeing his final game in charge before joining Schalke next season.
"I think that VfL will be in the running for the title in the future too," said an emotional Magath. "We have put together a young and hungry team with fantastic prospects.
"It's a dream, I never believed we had the chance to win the title, but the boys deserve it. And leaving now will be very difficult."
Bosnia's Dzeko and Brazil's Grafite have scored 54 goals between them this season to break the previous record set by Bayern Munich's Gerd Muller and Uli Hoeness in the 1970s.
"It's completely mad to have won the championship and got the record," said Dzeko."It's a great feeling - we will celebrate all night long."
Bayern Munich made certain of the runners-up spot -- and a place in the Champions League group stage next season -- with a 2-1 home win over Stuttgart who could have overtaken the deposed champions.
An own goal from Khalid Boulahrouz on 16 gave Bayern the lead and Mark van Bommel made it 2-0 on the hour. Mario Gomez pulled one back three minutes later, but Bayern held on.
Arminia Bielefeld and Karlsruhe were relegated while Energie Cottbus' 3-0 win over Bayer Leverkusen means they face a two-legged play-off against the team which finishes third in the second tier for a top flight slot next season.
