The Pennsylvania attorney general may be taking a second look at the actions of a rural high school where Jerry Sandusky was a volunteer coach in 2008 and where administrators have been publicly criticized for discouraging a student from making allegations of sexual abuse against the then-famous coach.
That student, Aaron Fisher, later became known as the first of 10 victims in a scathing indictment of serial and predatory child sex abuse by Sandusky, who is now serving 30 years in prison for his crimes.
The co-author of Fisher's book, Mike Gillum, told CNN that he and Fisher's mother have been approached by investigators with the Pennsylvania Attorney General's office about the actions of administrators at Central Mountain High School in 2008.
Matt Sandusky files motion to have name changed
Sandusky was a volunteer football coach and would often take Fisher from class without his mother's permission. Fisher, who was abused for four years, launched the investigation into Sandusky when he came forward to police in 2009.
Fisher's mother has repeatedly said that the high school principal told her to wait and think about the implications of accusing Sandusky before calling authorities.
Although there's been talk about an investigation by the state department of Education or by federal authorities, Gillum said this inquiry by the attorney general is the first time Fisher, his mom or Gillum have been contacted by investigators about the actions of school administrators.
Sandusky's son, six others reach settlement with Penn State
In the past year, Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane has launched a case-wide review of the Sandusky investigation because of numerous criticisms about the two-year gap between Fisher's report and Sandusky's arrest, plus allegations that charges weren't filed against others who might have known about Sandusky's abuse for months.
Two former administrators and the former president of Penn State are facing trial on charges related to an alleged cover-up at the university.
But Fisher's high school, Central Mountain, in the small town of Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, has escaped scrutiny from authorities until now.
Fisher made his name public last year with the publication of his book, "Silent No More."
Sandusky's appeal denied
