Hermine dumped rain on the San Antonio, Texas, area Tuesday before bringing the same, along with tornado watches and flash-flood warnings, to the central and northern parts of the state.
As of 8 p.m. ET, the center of Hermine, downgraded to a tropical depression, was about five miles (about eight kilometers) southwest of Brady. Its maximum sustained winds were at 35 mph (55 kph). It was moving north at about 20 mph (33 kph).
However, Hermine still packed enough of a punch to cause flooding in the San Antonio area. Between 1 and 3 inches of rain an hour fell over the city, according to CNN meteorologists, citing weather radar.
Hermine could drop between 4 to 6 inches of rain on portions of the state and prompt flash floods, forecasters said. Isolated tornadoes were possible overnight.
Portions of Interstate 35 were closed because of flooding over the road in San Antonio, according to the Texas Department of Transportation. At least 22 other roads also were closed by high water, said Melissa Sparks of the San Antonio Fire Department.
Strong wind blew off the roof of an apartment complex, said Laura Jesse of the Bexar County fire marshal's office. There were no reports of injuries.
"It's rain and a lot of wind," said CNN iReporter Caroline Radtke of San Antonio, who shot a video of the weather spawned by Hermine. "I'm still wet from it."
She shot her video around noon, and nearly two hours later said, "It's almost worse now."
Hermine made landfall slightly over the Mexican border near Brownsville, Texas, on Monday night.
"It was pretty loud last night," said CNN iReporter Jeremy Williams of Weslaco, Texas, about 45 miles northwest of Brownsville. He said the gusts began to calm about 2 a.m. or 3 a.m., "but for a while, it was just pounding winds."
He said gusts of up to 60 mph were reported about 20 miles to the east, in Harlingen.
A wind gust of 56 mph was reported at Kingsville, Texas, just before 7 a.m. ET, forecasters said. Footage from CNN affiliate KTRK in Galveston, Texas, showed huge waves hammering the coastline.
A storm surge was forecast to raise water levels by as much as 1 to 3 feet along southern Texas, forecasters said. Water levels were gradually receding, but will probably remain above normal for the next day or so. Tropical storm-force winds extended outward up to 45 miles from the center of the storm.
Williams said he did not lose power, but others in the Rio Grande Valley did.
As of about 11 a.m. Tuesday, he said, "the skies look really clear" and the sun was out, with temperatures in the mid-80s. "It's actually really nice out today," he said.
Joseph Tomaselli, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Brownsville, said flooding and fallen trees, signs, power lines and power poles were reported in Brownsville and Cameron County on Tuesday morning.
CNN's Sean Morris and Ashley Hayes contributed to this report.
