Vitali and Wladimir Klitschko have confirmed that one of them will fight Poland's Tomasz Adamek for their world heavyweight titles in September.
Confirmation of whether it will be Vitali, who holds the World Boxing Council (WBC) belt, or Wladimir, the World Boxing Organization (WBO) and International Boxing Federation (IBF) champion, who will face Adamek is expected to be announced in the next few weeks.
The 34-year-old Adamek, a former light-heavyweight and cruiserweight world champion, has an impressive record -- winniing 43 of his 44 fights with his only defeat coming to American Chad Dawson in 2007.
Since moving up to heavweight, Adamek has won all his five heavyweight bouts, including an impressive points win over former world title challenger Chris Arreola.
However, before any fight takes place, with one of the new stadiums being built for the Euro 2012 football tournament in Poland the likely venue, a series of other bouts must happen first.
Vitali Klitschko will face Cuban Odlanier Solis in Cologne, Germany on March 19, while younger brother Wladimir takes on Briton Dereck Chisora in Mannheim, Germany on April 30. Adamek himself is also scheduled to have a fight in April.
Should both Klitchko brothers lose, the deal with Adamek would be dead. If one loses, Adamek would face the other brother. If both Klitschko brothers win, the choice of Adamek's opponent would be decided by the Klitschko side.
Speaking on the official Klitschko website, Adamek said: "It doesn't make a difference to me which Klitschko I fight.
"Right now they are both the biggest stars in the boxing world right now and I want to fight the biggest stars. I'm grateful for the opportunity," he added.
The news will be a bitter blow to Briton David Haye, who holds the other major belt, the World Boxing Association (WBA) title.
Haye had been negotiating with the Klitschko brothers over a possible unification fight, but has publicly stated that if that does not happen by October, he will retire form the sport.
