A former NFL player and his mother have been indicted in a scheme to steal more than $690,000 by fraudulently obtaining five home equity loans in six days, according to the New Jersey Attorney General's Office.
Irving Fryar, 51, and his mother, Allene McGhee, 72, were charged with second-degree conspiracy and theft by deception in New Jersey Superior Court Wednesday.
The indictment alleges that Fryar schemed with McGhee to obtain five home equity loans totaling more than $690,000 between December 16 and 21, 2009, using McGhee's Willingboro home as collateral for all of the loans. The pair allegedly deceived five banks by acquiring the loans within six days and purposefully failing to disclose the existence of any other loans.
The indictment further charges that McGhee's loan applications falsely claimed that she earned thousands of dollars a month as an event coordinator for her son's church, New Jerusalem House of God in Burlington County. Fryar himself allegedly received or spent more than $200,000 of the fraudulently obtained loan proceeds, the attorney general's office said.
Fryar and McGhee made only a few payments on four of the loans, and those banks eventually wrote the loans off as losses, authorities said.
"This is not a case in which Mr. Fryar and his mother simply omitted or misstated information on loan applications," said acting Attorney General John Hoffman. "This indictment alleges that they engaged in an elaborate criminal scheme that was designed to defraud these banks of hundreds of thousands of dollars."
Neither Fryar nor McGhee responded to CNN's requests for comment. It is unclear whether either has hired an attorney.
A court date has not yet been set, according to the attorney general's office.
Between 1984 and 2000, Fryar played for four NFL teams: the New England Patriots, the Miami Dolphins, the Philadelphia Eagles and the Washington Redskins. He is the head football coach at Robbinsville High School in Robbinsville, New Jersey.
CNN's Rob Frehse contributed to this report.
