Kim Kardashian and Kanye West, aka "the world's most talked about couple," are saying next to nothing about their wedding plans.
So of course, as their reported May 24 wedding date draws closer, everyone else is speaking for them.
There have been a number of rumors about where the wedding will be, who's invited, what the bride will wear and what the ceremony will be like.
Kardashian has already warned her fans not to believe anything until they hear it from her, so take these bits of gossip with an engagement-ring sized rock of salt. For those having a hard time keeping up with this Kardashian and her wedding details, here's a roundup of everything we've heard so far:
Where's it going to be?
The short answer: Europe.
The long answer depends on whom you ask. Kardashian has said that she and West, who popped the question last October, had their sights set on marrying in Paris. But lately there's been a lot of chatter that Kardashian and West will have their rehearsal dinner in France before tying the knot in Florence, Italy.
The gossip is that the location has special meaning to them, with West being quoted as telling Florence's La Nazione newspaper that he thinks their daughter, North, was conceived there, "among the masterpieces of the Renaissance."
For what it's worth, Us Weekly says it has spotted wedding preparations at Florence's Forte di Belvedere, although E! reports the couple held their rehearsal dinner in France at the Palace of Versailles on Friday night.
The lavish affair's guest list reportedly ranged from fashion designer Valentino to movie producer Joel Silver to "Real Housewife" NeNe Leakes and featured a performance by Lana Del Rey, a surprise arranged by West for his bride-to-be. "Everyone was crying! So beautiful," sources told E!
Aren't they already married?
According to Kardashian, no. In early May there was a Life and Style Weekly report that Kardashian and West had already obtained their marriage license, but she personally denied that claim.
So who's invited?
Here's where the speculation gets interesting. There has been a lot of attention paid to whether West's friend and musical collaborator, Jay Z, would be in attendance with his wife, Beyonce.
Obviously, those two have had some personal issues sprout up in recent weeks, which is fueling the fire on which celebrity is attending and why. In early may, People magazine reported that neither Jay Z nor Beyonce would be attending the nuptials, because the couple is preparing for their summer "On the Run" tour and "the wedding hoopla is reportedly just too much for the power couple to make the trip."
Now, however, Us Weekly reports that Jay Z is attending the wedding but that Queen Bey is "still a 'maybe.'"
One person who will definitely be missing at the ceremony is "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" executive producer Ryan Seacrest, who has already said he's not going.
Guests expected to attend include members of the Kardashian-Jenner family but minus Brody Jenner, John Legend and Chrissy Teigen, fashion designer Rachel Roy, Vogue contributing editor Andre Leon Talley, star trainer Gunnar Peterson, and the usual assortment of Kardashian pals (Jonathan Cheban, La La Anthony, Brittny Gastineau, etc.).
More importantly, what will they bring?
We're not sure, but we've heard Kardashian's ex Ray J is planning to gift the newlyweds with a portion of his yearly profits from the sex tape he made with the bride-to-be.
How thoughtful. What will the ceremony be like?
Kardashian has said that it will be "VERY small & intimate," and will not be filmed for her E! reality show. Wedding guests are also supposed to be treated to a private tour of the Palace of Versailles before Saturday's event.
"You will see everything leading up 'til and after!" Kardashian tweeted May 7. "As much as we would love to share these memories on camera, we've decided to keep this close to our heart & share thru photos."
Will the groom wear leather jogging pants?
Neither Kardashian nor West have elaborated on their wedding day fashion, but we wouldn't be surprised.
And what about North?
The couple's 11-month-old daughter is present and accounted for, although whether she'll have a role in the ceremony remains to be seen. North has been her mother's pre-wedding shopping partner; she accompanied Kardashian on a trip to Givenchy.
What's that I've heard about a pre-nup?
TMZ reported that there is a prenuptial agreement, while RadarOnline has gone a step further in claiming Kardashian would get $1 million for every year she stays married to West.
But E! has quoted a source who calls that report "all wrong."
"Whether or not Kim and Kanye have a pre-nup is a private matter and any speculation is just that," another source told the network.
Hmm. Anything else?
You might be interested to know that Kardashian may rely on Jennifer Aniston's hairstylist -- the man who came up with "The Rachel" -- to create her wedding day 'do, and has balanced a pre-wedding diet of ice cream and cheeseburgers with trips to the gym with West. When not out shopping or snapping on-location pics for Instagram, Us Weekly reports the future Mrs. West has also sneaked in a $550 stem cell facial.
