Bayern Munich inflicted a record defeat on Sporting Lisbon to book their place in the quarterfinals of the Champions League by a staggering 12-1 on aggregate.
Bayern Munich players react to the crowd after their staggering 12-1 aggregate victory over Sporting.
Leading 5-0 from the first leg, a double from Lukas Podolski and Anderson Polga's own goal put them 3-0 up on the night within 40 minutes before Joao Moutinho pulled one back in stunning fashion.
It was the briefest respite for Sporting, though, Bastian Schweinsteiger hitting an immediate reply, before Mark van Bommel, Miroslav Klose (pen) and Thomas Muller netted in the second half for a 7-1 triumph on the night.
The result was a record aggregate winning margin for a post-group stage Champions League game, surpassing Lyon's 10-2 demolition of Werder Bremen in 2005.
The scoring began in the eighth minute, Podolski combining well with Ze Roberto on the edge of the box after Bayern took advantage of a poor defensive clearance before hammering home from the edge of the box.
Bayern were rampant and the second finally came after 34 minutes when a long kick from the Bayern keeper Jorg Butt sailed through to the edge of the Sporting area.
It should have been simple for the visiting defense, but a horrible mix-up between Polga and and Patricio allowed Podolski to flick the ball over his head and into the empty net.
Polga's night got even worse 39 later when he scored an own goal, volleying Schweinsteiger's cross into his own net.
There was a brief hiatus in Sporting's embarrassment when Moutinho's classy strike arrowed into the far left corner three minutes before the break to reduce the arrears.
But barely a minute later, Christian Lell pulled the ball back for Schweinsteiger to sweep home, making it 9-1 on aggregate.
Bayern coach Jurgen Klinsmann made two changes at half-time, bringing on Jose Sosa and Breno for Ze Roberto and Lucio as the pace dropped.
A fifth did arrive, though, in the 74th minute, substitute Muller's cross headed across goal by Klose for Van Bommel to control and fire home.
And Klose continued to pile on the woe for Sporting in the 82nd minute, picking himself up from a foul by Pedro Silva to convert the subsequent penalty.
Teenager Muller, making his Champions League debut, rounded things off in the final minute, poking home from Sosa's corner.
