(CNN)  -- Carlo Ancelotti was sacked as Chelsea manager Sunday night after their 1-0 defeat to Everton in the final match of the English Premier League season.
Despite the defeat, Chelsea finished second in the standings to Manchester United, but they were beaten in the quarterfinals of the Champions League by arch-rivals United and failed to bring any silverware to Stamford Bridge.
Chelsea won the English domestic double in Ancelotti's triumphant first season in charge, but after a strong start to this campaign a string of disappointing results saw them drift out of the title race.
Statistically, it is their worst season since Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich bought the club in 2003, with Ancelotti paying the price.
The club said in a statement on their official website: "Chelsea Football Club can confirm that Carlo Ancelotti parted company with the club today (Sunday, 22 May).
"The owner and board would like to thank Carlo for his contribution and achievements since taking over as manager in July 2009, which included winning the Double for the first time in the club's history.
"However, this season's performances have fallen short of expectations and the club feels the time is right to make this change ahead of next season's preparations."
Ancelotti gave his post-match press conference after the defeat at Goodison Park, but was told by chief executive Ron Gourlay that his services were no longer required before he left the ground.
"Chelsea's long-term football objectives and ambitions remain unchanged and we will now be concentrating all our efforts on identifying a new manager," added the club statement.
Guus Hiddink, who enjoyed a successful caretaker spell at Chelsea after Luiz Felipe Scolari was sacked, has been linked with a return and is a personal friend of Abramovich.
But he is currently in charge of the Turkey national team and reportedly not keen on a return to club management.
Other names being mentioned inevitably include Jose Mourinho, who led Chelsea to two titles, and 33-year-old Andre Villas-Boas, who is being dubbed as the new "Special One" after breaking several of Mourinho's records at Europa League winners Porto.
Former AC Milan manager Ancelotti is the sixth manager of Abramovich's eight-year reign and came to the Blues with a top-class record having guided the Rossoneri to a pair of Champions League triumphs.
