(CNN)When Bruce Jenner told ABC's Diane Sawyer and the world on Friday night that "Yes, for all intents and purposes, I'm a woman," the declaration wasn't particularly surprising.
Paparazzi have been stalking the former Olympic champion for months, breathlessly documenting his increasingly feminine appearance down to his lip gloss, pierced ears and French manicure.
The social media reaction?  A cheer, a shrug -- and not much else. Except the occasional prod at Jenner also being Republican.
Of course, Jenner's family owned the moment, being the reality TV mavens they are -- the Jenners and the Kardashians.
"So very proud of you, my hero," tweeted daughter Kendall Jenner.
His other daughter Kylie Jenner expressed mixed emotions.
"Understandingly, this has been very hard for me. You will hear what I have to say when I'm ready to but ... this isn't about me. I'm so proud of you, Dad. You are so brave. My beautiful Hero," she said on Twitter.
Ex-wife Kris Jenner was equally supportive.
"Not only was I able to call him my husband for 25 years and father of my children, I am now able to call him my hero," she said.
Stepdaughters Kim, Khloé and Kourtney Kardashian also joined the family chorus.
"Love is the courage to live the truest, best version of yourself. Bruce is love. I love you Bruce. #ProudDaughter," Kim tweeted.
"Just finished watching the #BruceJennerInterview with the family. Bruzer, I'm soooo proud of you! Dads really are heros ❤️," Khloé said on Twitter.
"Couldn't be a more proud daughter. With courage and bravery, let's change the world. I am honored to stand by Bruce's side and support him," Kourtney said.
The entertainment industry was quick to embrace the news.
Lady Gaga has long supported lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues.
"We have the chance to write this moment in history together," she tweeted.  "Let's empower people like Bruce all over the world by being loving & not mean.💗"
Transgender actress Laverne Cox of "Orange is the New Black" gave a shout out.
"Sending lots of love and support to #BruceJenner and their family tonight," she tweeted.  "It is always brave to stand in one's truth. Congrats darling."
The Jenner interview was a key moment for advocacy groups like GLAAD and  the National Center for Transgender Equality, thrusting LGBT issues into the spotlight.
"Today, millions of people learned that someone they know is transgender," GLAAD tweeted.
"Welcome, #BruceJenner," Trans Equality tweeted.  "Thank you for your courage and bravery."
As with all things, public opinion is hardly unanimous and social media only represents the views of those who post.
Still, there were few detractors.
One man used an Old Testament Bible verse as the basis for his stance.
"GOP Logic: Bruce Jenner is not Gay...but Transgender," Benny said on Twitter.  "Still forbidden by the Bible but we cherrypick."
This woman wasn't sure what to make of Jenner's announcement.
"Still confused about Bruce Jenner becoming a woman...," tweeted HugHey.
And what would a social media event be without a good dose of humor.
Many folks seemed to be more intrigued by Jenner's announcement that he's Republican than him coming out as a woman.
"I accept that Bruce Jenner is a Republican and wish him happiness, even if I can't understand it," said Johnny McNulty.
"I'll accept Bruce Jenner's choice to live how he wants much easier than leftists will accept his politics," CounterMoonbat said on twitter.
And this final nugget from Bibi.
"Bruce Jenner: *comes out as a woman*
"Everyone: "Yas girl, slay"
"Bruce Jenner: *comes out as a republican*
Everyone: "disgusting"
