Park Ji-Sung made history this year when the Manchester United midfielder became the first Korean to appear in the final of the European Champions League.
Manchester United's Park Ji-Sung in action for his club.
The 28-year-old finished on the losing side in May, after Alex Ferguson's team were beaten 2-0 by Spain's Barcelona on the night, but for Park, his inclusion in the starting eleven represented a significant achievement.
CNN will be traveling to the Red Devils' training ground on September 21 to speak to Park about his life, and we're giving you the chance to question the man himself. What do you want to ask Park Ji-Sung?
When it comes to Asian football, there's no bigger star than Park Ji-Sung. The midfielder is a hero in his home country, not only for captaining the national team, but also for flying the flag for Korean football abroad thanks to a string of lung-busting performances for one of the world's most famous club sides. Video : Park Ji-Sung talks to CNN. »
In fact, he has been nicknamed "Three-lung Park" by the media in his homeland, thanks to his seemingly overflowing energy supply. The same newspapers plaster Park on their front pages whenever he plays.
Yet when he signed for Manchester United from Dutch side PSV Eindhoven, some unfairly thought that it was a mere sop, a marketing tool for Manchester United to sell more replica shirts.  Check out CNN's Park Ji-Sung gallery. »
But Ferguson has had other ideas, picking Park for some of United's most important games. "He has developed his tactical and technical ability and he has become a very important player for us," Ferguson told a press conference during United's summer tour of Korea. "He has had a fantastic career with us."
That career has seen him earn a Champions League winner's medal, numerous Premier League titles and a fourth place finish at the 2002 World Cup finals.
If anything this year has been his best yet. Following last season's English Premier League title, and a start in this year's Champions League final, he led South Korea to the 2010 World Cup finals, scoring a late goal against Iran to secure their automatic qualification for South Africa. To confirm his status, he has just signed a two-year extension at United.
And now CNN are offering you the chance to put your questions to arguably Asia's greatest player. What is Alex Ferguson like to work with? What has been the highlight of his career so far? And what hope do South Korea have of emulating their 2002 World Cup glory in South Africa next summer? Leave your questions below.
