Amanda Bynes has hit rough road yet again.
The 28-year-old actress was arrested on a DUI charge early Sunday morning in Sherman Oaks, California, Officer Juan Galvan with the California Highway Patrol confirmed to CNN.
CHP officers said they observed Bynes driving her white Mercedes Benz SUV west on Riverside Drive, where she stopped for a red light in the middle of an intersection.
Bynes immediately pulled over for the highway patrol and according to police failed to pass a series of field sobriety tests. Officers transported her to the West Valley CHP office for evaluation by a drug recognition expert.
Bynes was then arrested for allegedly driving under the influence of a drug and booked at the Los Angeles Police Department's Van Nuys Jail shortly after 7 a.m.
The CHP arrest report notes Bynes' "disheveled appearance," but indicates she was cooperative throughout the entire arrest process.
Bynes' attorneys did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
The former child star of Nickelodeon's "All That" and "The Amanda Show" was placed in an involuntary psychiatric hold last year.
She had earlier been charged with a DUI after an April 2012 inident in which Bynes' BMW allegedly sideswiped a police cruiser in West Hollywood. In February 2014 that DUI charge was dismissed in a plea deal that gave the actress three years on probation, a requirement to attend an alcohol education course and pay a fine after she entered a no-contest plea to reckless driving.
Amanda Bynes gets probation in DUI plea deal
Last December, following her detainment for the mental health evaluation, Bynes was in custody of her parents in California. She has been splitting her time between treatment and studying at the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising.
Her once controversial Twitter page -- where she posted photos in brightly colored wigs and professed her disdain for "ugly" people -- was most recently filled with sunny tweets about fashion and family vacations.
The actress has remained silent on Twitter since May.
