At last count, Copenhagen's restaurants boasted 12 Michelin stars between them, more than anywhere else in Scandinavia.
Rebe Redzepi, right, is head chef at Noma.
Noma (Strandgade 93) is unique in that it can claim two of those stars. From a converted waterfront warehouse, chef Rebe Redzepi offers a modern take on Nordic cuisine, scouring Scandinavia for ingredients such as langoustines from the Faeroe Islands, wild salmon from Iceland and musk ox from Greenland -- fantastic served with glazed beetroots, apple and smoked marrow.
Geranium (Kronprinsessegade 13), in the beautiful gardens of Kongens Have, has earned a Michelin star for its biodynamic, organic cuisine, including some imaginative vegetarian dishes -- try the new carrots with elderflower vinegar, sago and white chocolate.
Le Sommelier (Bredgade 63-65) has more than 800 wines and a famous crème brûlée with geranium ice cream, while Café Victor (Ny Østergade 8) is a hip bistro that draws an artsy crowd and the occasional visiting celebrity. It also boasts a fine selection of spirits.
Vegans will find unfussy fare at Den Gronne Kaelder (Pilestaede 48) and Restaurant Flow (Gyldenløvesgade 10) dishes up organic vegetarian food in a relaxed setting.
Danes drink more coffee per person than any other nationality, so perhaps it's not so surprising that they have won the world barista championship four times in the last eight years. Klaus Thomsen was 2006 champion and he runs Estate Coffee (Dronning Olgas Vej 30), which slow roasts its own blends, as does Café Europa (Amagertorv 1), run by 2001 champion Martin Hildebrandt.
Café Stelling (Gammel Torv 6) looks stunning with its Arne Jacobsen chairs, tables, bar stools and lamps, while multi-taskers will enjoy Laundromat Café (Elmegade 15), where you can grab a coffee, wash your clothes, and browse through the 4,000 used books that are on sale there.
No trip to Copenhagen would be complete without sampling the Danes' favourite snack, "smørrebrød." The classic 'open sandwich' consists of dense, dark brown rye bread finished with toppings that might include smoked salmon, herring, cheese, egg or shrimp. You can choose from 200 varieties at Ida Davidsen (Store Kongensgade 70). The Royal Café (Amagertorv 6) offers a more refined take on the open sandwich, served in sushi-sized portions and eaten in suitably regal surroundings.
......................
Copenhagen city guide:
Where to stay | What to see | Where to be seen | Where to eat | Where to shop
......................
Do you agree with our Copenhagen picks? Send us your comments and suggestions in the "Sound Off" box below and we'll print the best.
