A record-breaking winner of 18 grand slam singles titles, Martina Navratilova is to join the ranks of tennis' super coaches.
The 58-year-old will work with world No. 6 Agnieszka Radwanska next season in her first major coaching role.
"I didn't sleep very well last night thinking about getting back into match mode and the competitions," said Navratilova, who won a record nine Wimbledon singles titles.
"I am really excited about this opportunity to join Agnieszka's team -- I can't wait to get started."
Radwanska, who reached the Wimbledon final in 2012, hopes appointing Navratilova will help end her quest for her first grand slam.
"I am absolutely delighted that Martina has agreed to help me and my team next season," said the 25-year-old Pole.
"She is my idol in tennis and I am honored we will be working together. My goal is to win a grand slam, so to have someone with Martina's accomplishments in my corner is going to be hugely advantageous and give me a big boost.
"We are originally from a similar part of the world so we share an understanding about tennis and life, which I'm sure will translate into a successful relationship," added Radwanksa, referring to the Czech-born Navratilova, who is a naturalized American.
The sight of a super coach courtside has become de rigeur in the men's game since Andy Murray sought the advice of eight-time grand slam winner Ivan Lendl in 2012.
That partnership paid off as the Briton went on to win his first majors at the U.S Open and Wimbledon before adding the 2012 Olympic gold medal on home soil in London.
Since then, Roger Federer -- not shy of a grand slam or 17 himself -- has worked with Swedish ace Stefan Edberg.
Reigning Wimbledon champion Novak Djokovic opted for flamboyant German Boris Becker while Murray is now supported by French female major winner Amelie Mauresmo after his split with Lendl.
Navratilova is about to break new ground by becoming the first super-coach on the women's tennis tour.
The Czech-born American citizen will no doubt relish the chance to set new standards as that's just what she's being doing since winning her first grand slam at the French Open in 1975.
Blending serve-and-volley style with a power game, the left-handed star blazed into the record books.
Navratilova holds an open era record 167 singles titles and 177 doubles titles as well as 59 grand slam crowns - in singles, doubles and mixed doubles.
She won a final grand slam title -- the 2006 U.S. Open mixed doubles with partner Bob Bryan -- just one month shy of her 50th birthday before retiring from the game.
Navratilova is also known as a TV personality, an activist for gay rights and she has even turned her hand to writing detective novels set in the world of competitive tennis.
Now she must solve the case of the missing grand slam for Radwanska in 2015.
