The death toll in the flooding across Pakistan is now 58, the National Disaster Management Authority said Monday.
Flash floods from torrential rains over the past three days have killed 15 people and displaced more than 20,000 others in Pakistan's Balochistan province, Abdul Katif Kakar, the director of planning for the Provincial Disaster Management Authority, said Monday.
At a news conference in Quetta, Kakar said that in Balochistan, the flooding and rain killed six people in Khuzdar district, four in Turbat and five in Lasbella. He said two people were missing in Lasbella district, feared to have been swept away by flood waters.
Monsoon rains and flash flooding continue to bring misery to people living in Khuzdar, Jhal Magsi and Loralai districts. The disaster agency says nine districts across Balochistan are heavily affected by floods. It says more than two dozen mud-walled houses have collapsed from flooding in the Nawan Killi area of Quetta, the capital of Balochistan.
In Jhal Magsi, one of the worst-affected areas, 27 villages have been overwhelmed, forcing thousands of people to flee to shelter on higher ground in deserted mountainous areas.
Kakar says the Pakistan army is helping people affected by the floods.
"The army has stepped in to provide assistance to people in Jhal Magsi. Two army helicopters are bringing relief goods to the areas. Tents have been dispatched to people in need to the Nawan Killi areas of Quetta," he said.
And in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, flood waters have receded, and people are cleaning up mud and debris and assessing damage to their properties and businesses. Since the weekend, disaster management agency officials say at least 17 people have died in flash flooding across the province.
Flood waters are receding in Karachi, Pakistan's largest city, where eight people were reported killed. A security official who didn't want to be named told CNN: "In most parts of the city affected by the flooding, Shah Town, Saddar Town and Defence, the flooding is now under control. This is not a large-scale problem; the authorities in Karachi are handling things well with minimum input from the Pakistan army."
Additional deaths were reported in Punjab, Fata and Azad Jammu Kashmir provinces.
