Five days ago, Justin Bieber wasn't worried about a thing.
And it wasn't because he didn't have a reason to be. The pop star has been under investigation for alleged involvement in a January 9 egg attack on a neighbor's home -- one that caused an estimated $20,000 in damages -- but you wouldn't know it from his tweets.
After police raided his Calabasas, California, home and seized his security footage and iPhone, Bieber was on Instagram sharing photos of a snowy vacation with friends.
His carefree attitude was emphasized in an Instagram post he captioned, "worried about nothing.'"
While the media has been running in circles over allegations ranging from drug abuse to public urination, Bieber's social life -- at least as depicted on his social media accounts -- never faltered.
Here's a breakdown of how Bieber's been spending his free time in the days leading up to his arrest:
Getting new ink
Biebs has gotten so many tattoos that they can make up their own guide. On January 12 he shared a photo of a freshly inked compass -- maybe he was feeling a little lost.
Snowboarding
For the past week, we've heard little from Bieber that didn't include him hanging out with friends. Word has it that the star has been thoroughly enjoying his break from concerts and work commitments.
Lounging (sometimes shirtless, because why not?)
Nothing says wealth like a near-empty chest of drawers and a selfie taken in slippers -- at least, that's how we're interpreting this Instagram post from five days ago. Or maybe he's trying to signal that his shorts were hanging a little low because of all the cash in his pockets? The prior shirtless snapshot is a little easier to figure out -- the kid is always thinking of his fans.
Pranking friends
No one knows whether it's Bieber's butt that's mooning a snoozing Lil Za -- one of Bieb's regular pals -- or someone else's, but he did feel comfortable sharing the bro prank with the world.
Smoking Cuban cigars and shooting hoops
We know that Bieber flew down to Miami on a Monday, and the reports of what he's being doing there -- aside from his recent arrest -- include spending $75,000 in a strip club. Bieber hasn't confirmed that bit of gossip, but we do know he's recently lit up at least one Cuban cigar and been to Lil Wayne's Miami-area skate park.
Tagging
Justin Bieber's love for graffiti art has only increased in recent years -- and sometimes it gets him into trouble. Yet it wasn't tagging his initials that got him popped by the cops in Miami ...
Cruising in a Lamborghini
We all know how this turned out. But before the police arrived, Bieber and his car companion -- who's been identified as model Chantel Jeffries -- were captured enjoying a night drive, an image shared on Bieber's friend Khalil's Instagram account.
All of which leads up to the early hours of January 23, when Bieber was arrested on charges of drunken driving, resisting arrest and driving without a valid license.
Obviously, given the circumstances, we can imagine that the star won't be sharing any Twitter updates for a while.
