A memo reportedly written two years ago by Maj. Nidal Hasan's supervisor at Walter Reed Army Medical Center says the accused Fort Hood shooter demonstrated "a pattern of poor judgment and a lack of professionalism" during his residency at the hospital.
National Public Radio obtained what it said is a copy of the memo, posting on NPR.org  a retyped version that the network said was a "transcript" of the memo and "not a facsimile or PDF of the actual document."
"The faculty has serious concerns about CPT Hasan's professionalism and work ethic," said the memo, signed by Maj. Scott Moran, the residency program's director. "Clinically he is competent to deliver safe patient care. But he demonstrates a pattern of poor judgment and a lack of professionalism."
Read document obtained by NPR
CNN could not corroborate the authenticity of the memo nor reach Moran for comment. Last week, Moran said he could not comment about differing accounts of Hasan's behavior and disciplinary record.
Hasan's supervisor at Fort Hood Army Post, Col. Kimberly Kesling, has said that Hasan's evaluations from Walter Reed contained some information that concerned her, but the concerns triggered an approach to integrate Hasan into the staff that she said had been successful.
"The types of things that were reported to me via his evaluation report were things that concerned me, but did not raise red flags toward this [the shootings] in any way, shape or form," she said, adding that Hasan "was doing a really good job for us."
Hasan, still hospitalized in Texas, has been charged with 13 counts of premeditated murder in the November 5 shooting at Fort Hood.
The memo obtained by National Public Radio said that Hasan, then a captain, was "counseled for inappropriately discussing religious topics" with patients and went through a remediation program for inappropriate documentation of his handling of a homicidal patient during an emergency room encounter.
The document said Hasan's remediation on that problem was successful but added that he was placed on administrative probation at the end of the year for not taking and passing the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. He later corrected that problem as well, the memo said.
The memo also noted a poor attendance record and lower-than-expected scores on the Psychiatry Resident-In-Training Examination, a yearly exam that Hasan failed to take during one of his residency years.
In his final year of residency, the memo said, Hasan saw 30 patients in 38 weeks and was required to use elective class time to make up the lost clinic time. And, it said, he missed a night of emergency room on-call duty and did not respond to Moran's pages the next day.
"These issues demonstrate a lack of professionalism and work ethics," the memo said. "He is able to self-correct with supervision. However, at this point he should not need so much supervision."
The memo concluded, however, that Hasan's record was not enough to indicate "he is not competent to graduate" or that further academic probation would be helpful.
"He would be able to contain his behavior enough to complete any period of probation successfully," the memo said.
