Bastian Schweinsteiger rescued a point for Bayern Munich as the German Bundesliga leaders were held to a 1-1 draw by Cologne on Saturday.
The Germany international grabbed an equalizer for Bayern in the 58th minute as Louis van Gaal's side missed the opportunity to increase their lead at the top of the table.
Bayern had looked to be heading for their first defeat since November after former striker Lukas Podolski, who had earlier hit the post, gave Cologne the lead at the RheinEnergieStadion.
Podolski struck a superb free-kick in the 32nd minute which deflected off goalkeeper Hans-Jorg Butt's hand and into the top-left corner of the net.
But the impressive Thomas Mueller set up midfielder Schweinsteiger and he stroked the ball home from just inside the penalty area to secure a point for Bayern.
Schalke are hot on the heels of the leaders after they cruised to a 4-1 win at Eintracht Frankfurt to close the gap to two points thanks to goals from Joel Matip, Benedikt Howedes Ivan Rakitic and Kevin Kuranyi.
Marcell Jansen scored the only goal of the game to ensure Hamburg remain in touch with the top three as they claimed a 1-0 win over Hertha Berlin at the HSH Nordbank Arena which left Hertha rooted to the bottom of the table.
Stuttgart threw away a two-goal lead as they drew 2-2 with Werder Bremen. Sami Khedira and Pavel Pogrebnyak gave the visitors a 2-0 half-time advantage but Portugal striker Hugo Almeida pulled a goal back for Bremen before Torsten Frings leveled with nine minutes remaining.
Elsewhere, Wolfsburg scored four second-half goals as they came from behind to a record a 4-1 win over Bochum thanks to a brace from Edin Dzeko and a goal apiece from Obafemi Martins and Jonathan Santana.
Hannover clinched a vital three points over fellow relegation strugglers Freiburg with a 2-1 away victory as Papiss Demba Cisse put through his own net for the home side after Yacine Abdessadki had equalized Elson's opener for the visitors.
In the day's late kick-off Borussia Dortmund kept up the chase for the Europa League with a routine 3-0 home victory over Borussia Monchengladbach.
Egypt international Mohamed Zidan, who scored against England during the week, struck twice in the second half after Kevin Grosskreutz had given Dortmund the lead.
