(CNN Student News) -- November 12, 2013
As the Filipino president declares a "state of national calamity," CNN Student News reports on rescue and recovery efforts following a devastating typhoon. We also discuss the Washington Monument's repair status, and we see how the U.S. and other countries paid tribute to their veterans. Plus, we hear how the U.S. military plans to outfit commandos with "Iron Man" suits.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What unique challenges do reporters face in an area struck by a natural disaster?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. "national calamity"
2. Washington Monument
3. military technology
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Where in Washington, D.C. would you find the Washington Monument? Why was this monument closed to the public two years ago?
2. About how many veterans are there in the U.S.? What are some ways in which veterans were honored yesterday around the world?
3. How has Miami Dolphins player Richie Incognito responded to accusations of bullying? What has been said about the issue by player Jonathan Martin's lawyer?
Discussion Questions:
1. What kind of information do you think relief workers might need to help survivors of Typhoon Haiyan? What might be the challenges of getting this information?
2. What are your thoughts about recent allegations of misconduct among some Miami Dolphins players? Have your views on this story changed since more details came to light? Explain. In your view, what are some possible outcomes regarding this issue?
3. What do you think might be some of the benefits and limitations of the "Iron Man" suit ordered by the U.S. military? What modifications would you make to such a suit to give it new functions? Can you think of non-military uses for this kind of suit? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Philippines; Mt. Fuji, Japan
North America
Washington, D.C.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
