(CNN Student News) -- April 22, 2014
What's the only planet not named for a god in Greek or Roman mythology? Here's a hint: There's an event concerning it today. We also update you on news from Ukraine, South Korea, and Boston, Massachusetts. And we look into the phenomenon and concerns surrounding binge watching.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Do you think that news media focus too much, too little, or just enough on "good news"? Explain.
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. "Boston Strong"
2. Earth Day
3. "binge watching"
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is the capital of Ukraine? What high-ranking U.S. official just visited there? Why was he there? What are some reasons for protests in about a dozen Ukrainian cities and towns? What country are some blaming for the protests? How has this country responded?
2. Who are the male and female winners of yesterday's Boston Marathon? What was unique about each of their victories? How did the number of marathon participants compare to that of last year?
3. According to the video, how many people worldwide are participating in Earth Day? What are some of the things that participants are doing?
4. What is "binge watching"? According to the video, how is technology taking binge watching to new levels? What are some of the downsides of binge watching?
5. Who is Bruno Serato? How has his initiative grown in recent years? What else does he do to improve others' lives?
Discussion Questions:
1. In your opinion, what might be some reasons why there were thousands more runners in this year's Boston Marathon compared to last year's?
2. Do you observe Earth Day? If so, what do you do to mark the day? What, if anything, would you like to see local or national governments and people do to improve the environment?
3. Are you a fan of any shows on TV or streaming video? Do you ever watch several of these shows in one sitting? Do you think that binge watching is changing the way we watch TV? Explain. In your opinion, what are some upsides and downsides to binge watching? What kinds of businesses might start or expand as a result of this trend? If the trend continues to grow, what types of existing businesses might have to adapt in order to survive?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
