Perhaps Tim Meadows' invitation back to "Saturday Night Live" got lost in the mail.
The actor, who appeared on "SNL" from 1991 to 2000, initially seemed upset to see the show bring back its Bill Brasky sketch without him on Saturday.
Written by "SNL" alums Will Ferrell and Adam McKay, the sketch revolved around guys recalling the daring feats of legendary businessman Bill Brasky. At the heart of it was Ferrell who, with teeth too large and a drunken slur, would join his compatriots in toasting Brasky's awesomeness.
With Ferrell back on the show Saturday, "SNL" resurrected the sketch and tapped his "Anchorman 2" co-stars David Koechner and Paul Rudd, host of the night's episode, to join him.
Most viewers were probably thrilled to see the sketch return, but Meadows apparently was shocked.
"They did Brasky without me ... ," he posted on his Facebook page. "Not even a 'hey would you want to come to do one line and bring your kids to see (One Direction)...?' Nothing ... Wow ... I guess I know my place."
Meadows said he's "grateful for what they did for me" but it "stings a little to not even be considered as someone they would like to come back around. ... Sorry ('The Ladies Man') bombed. ... (I)f it would have done better they wouldn't treat me like a red-headed stepchild."
Other Brasky sketch regulars from the old days, such as Alec Baldwin and John Goodman, were also missing in action, and Meadows suggested the bit appeared to double as an "Anchorman 2" promo.
"I'm sure it's economics and budget," he said Sunday morning. "I'm not in 'Anchorman' and I'm not promoting a show so who would want to pay for me to fly to NYC. I'm nobody."
Later, after encouraging words from fans ("The Ladies Man" may not have done well at the box office, but at least one person considers the 2000 movie a classic) and learning the sketch was a last-minute deal, Meadows seemed to have made peace with being left out.
"Thanks everyone for all your kind comments. I'm not mad at the show," he shared. "I know what it takes to produce those sketches in a short amount of time. I talked to a friend on the show who said it WAS a last-minute sketch. I acted like a baby. I'm happy for all of my friends' success and will always be grateful and proud to have been a part of 'SNL.' That being said don't forget to see 'Anchorman 2' coming soon to a (theater) near you."
CNN's Carolyn Sung contributed to this report.
