One of the 12-year-olds charged with stabbing a friend to impress the fictional Internet bogeyman Slenderman was deemed incompetent to stand trial Friday -- at least for now -- according to court documents.
After debate between prosecutors and the defense over whether a competency test would violate Morgan Geyser's rights, the judge asked the girl whether she was competent.
"Court finds the defendant is standing mute," court documents show.
Dr. Brooke Lundbohm told the Waukesha County, Wisconsin, court that Morgan believes she has mind-control capabilities and can talk to Harry Potter villain Lord Voldemort, according to CNN affiliate WITI. She believes in unicorns, Lundbohm told the court.
Morgan also laughed inappropriately and squatted in her chair during her competency review, the doctor said, according to WITI.
Another expert, Dr. Kenneth Robbins, said Morgan wasn't concerned about a potential long prison sentence, and she said she uses Vulcan mind control, of "Star Trek" fame, to feel or believe whatever she wants, WITI reported.
Morgan also thinks she can speak to Slenderman and the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Robbins said, adding that she "looked happy, almost giddy" during her exam.
While both doctors opined that Morgan was not faking, Lundbohm told the court she could be deemed competent in the future and recommended medication.
"She needs to grow up," the doctor said, according to WITI.
The judge in the case set a November 12 hearing to discuss the competency report and found "that the defendant is incompetent to proceed at this time but likely to become competent," court documents say.
A doctor last month ruled Morgan incompetent, meaning she's incapable of assisting her attorney in her defense.
Morgan and Anissa Weier were arrested in May and charged with luring a pal into a wooded area in Waukesha after a sleepover before stabbing her 19 times, authorities said.
The suspects allegedly left the victim to crawl to her own rescue, and a bicyclist found the victim, also 12, on a sidewalk later in the day.
The girls were trying to please Slenderman, a horror story meme the girls had encountered on a website known as Creepypasta Wiki, according to a criminal complaint. One of the suspects told police that Slenderman is the site's supposed leader, and to climb into his realm, a user must kill someone, the complaint says.
Morgan and Anissa are charged as adults with attempted first-degree intentional homicide, and both girls' attorneys are hoping to have their cases returned to the juvenile court system.
CNN's Amanda Watts, Jason Hanna and Dana Ford contributed to this report.
