ZURICH, Switzerland -- Martina Hingis has stunned the world of sport by revealing that she tested positive for cocaine at Wimbledon.
Hingis won five grand slam titles and spent 209 weeks as world number one.
Hingis, 27, announced her retirement from tennis for the second time but  denied that she had ever taken performance-enhancing drugs.
"I've never taken drugs and I am 100 percent innocent," said the former world number one who added that she was "shocked and appalled" by the results of test taken after she crashed out in the third round at the All England Club to Laura Granville 6-4 6-2.
In a statement an emotional Hingis said: "I find this accusation so horrendous, so monstrous, that I have decided to confront it head-on by talking to the press.
"My weapon on the tennis court is and always was one single thing: the game, the ingenuity on court. And for this style of tennis, there is only one performance enhancer -- the love of the game."
Hingis said that she had hired an attorney to help her clear her name, but had decided to retire because she did not want to become entangled in a lengthy legal process.
"A case like this one can sometimes take years to resolve, especially if both sides repeatedly appeal the case and take it to the next level.
"And this is the reason for my announcement. I have no desire to spend the next several years of my life reduced to fighting against the doping officials."
Hingis ended her season last month because of hip problems and said she would take as long as necessary to become fully fit again.
Her second round loss to Peng Shuai of China in Beijing on September 19 proved to be her final match and it was rumored ahead of Thursday's press conference in Zurich that she would be calling it a day.
The popular Swiss player After returning to the game she won three titles and ended last year at number seven in the world rankings. She is still rated 19th on the WTA rankings.
During her career Hingis won five grand slam titles and spent 209 weeks as the world's number one.
WTA Tour chief executive Larry Scott said the tour had not received any official information about a positive test and "as a result we are not in a position to comment on the matter."
"However, it is important to remember that in the area of anti-doping, all players are presumed innocent until proven otherwise," Scott said.
Referring to her retirement, he said, "Martina Hingis is a tremendous champion and a fan favorite the world over. In her most recent comeback, she proved again that she can perform at the very highest levels of the game." E-mail to a friend
