Canadian investigators want to talk to actress Pamela Anderson about her recent revelation that she suffered sexual abuse as a child.
Anderson, 46, described several incidents of sex abuse at the launch of her charity, the Pamela Anderson Foundation, at the Cannes Film Festival in France on Friday. The incidents started at age 6, she said, when she was molested by a babysitter.
The former "Baywatch" star grew up in British Columbia before starting her modeling and acting career in the United States.
"Given the nature of the allegations, an investigator with the Ladysmith RCMP is in the process of reaching out to Ms. Anderson to discuss this matter with her directly," Royal Canadian Mounted Police spokesman Darren Lagan said Thursday. "Given the sensitive nature of these allegations, and out of respect for Ms. Anderson's privacy, we will provide no further comment at this time."
Although she had "loving parents," Anderson said she "did not have an easy childhood." She never told her parents about the abuse.
Child sex abuse is a taboo topic for some parents
"I feel now might be the time to reveal some of my most painful memories," she said, according to a transcript posted on her blog.
She recounted being molested between the ages of 6 and 10 by a female babysitter and then being raped when she was 12 by the 25-year-old brother of a friend's boyfriend. The man "decided he would teach me backgammon, which led into a back massage, which led into rape," she said.
Coincidentally, the Cannes event at which she revealed the rape was a backgammon tournament.
"Needless to say, I had a hard time trusting humans," Anderson said. "I just wanted off this Earth."
Although her parents "tried to keep me safe," the "world was not a safe place," she said. Her mother was busy with two waitressing jobs, she said.
Anderson said her love for animals saved her.
"My loyalty remained with the animal kingdom," she said. "I vowed to protect them and only them. I prayed to the whales with my feet in the ocean. My only real friends, till I had children."
Before her acting career took off, Anderson started her career as a Playboy centerfold, appearing on 13 covers of the magazine starting in 1989.
Pamela Anderson remarries ex-husband Rick Salomon
Anderson fronts racing team
CNN's Dave Alsup contributed to this report.
