(InStyle.com) -- It's been a big summer for wedded bliss: In the last few months, everyone from Penelope Cruz to Carrie Underwood to Emily Blunt has tied the knot. And, try as Chelsea Clinton might to keep the particulars under wraps, details of her upcoming nuptials have been slowly but surely leaking out. We're eagerly awaiting pictures of the former first daughter's gown -- rumor has it, she's wearing Vera Wang or Oscar de la Renta -- but in the meantime, we've decided to take a look back at the ten most iconic wedding dresses ever.
Jacqueline Bouvier  The future first lady (and fashion icon) wore a voluminous ivory silk taffeta gown by the designer Ann Lowe when she married John F. Kennedy in 1953. A portrait neckline and wide, embellished skirt emphasized Jackie's small waist, and an heirloom lace veil, which originally belonged to her grandmother, completed the super-romantic ensemble.
See all 21 best dressed celebrity brides
Gwen Stefani  Christian Dior designer John Galliano created this dip-dyed silk faille gown specifically for the singer's 2002 marriage to rocker Gavin Rossdale, and it's a triumph of personal style -- equal parts girlie and punk, just like the pop star herself.
Grace Kelly  In 1956, she played a princess onscreen in "The Swan" and then assumed the role in real life: The pearl-studded, long-sleeved gown she wore to marry Monaco's Prince Rainier was a parting gift from Grace Kelly's former studio, MGM. Conceived by costume designer Helen Rose--and constructed by three dozen seamstresses over six weeks -- the elaborate silk faille, silk tulle, and rose point lace confection was pure Hollywood fantasy.
InStyle.com: See celebrity-inspired engagement rings
Portia DeRossi Both of the brides wore Zac Posen at their 2008 ceremony: Ellen DeGeneres opted for a tailored ensemble consisting of white pants, a dress shirt, and a white vest, while DeRossi chose a dramatic (and beautiful) backless gown with a ballerina-inspired pale pink tulle skirt.
Lady Diana Spencer  Yes, her puff-sleeved, ruffled, silk taffeta gown -- decorated with lace, embroidery, sequins, and around 10,000 tiny pearls -- wasn't exactly understated. But then neither was anything else about Diana's royal wedding to Prince Charles in 1981.
InStyle.com: Stars' most memorable dresses
Marilyn Monroe  They seemed, to some, like a match made in heaven: the big-screen siren and the baseball star. While Monroe's marriage to Joe DiMaggio didn't even last a year, the fur-collared brown wool suit she wore to their 1954 ceremony at San Francisco's City Hall was utterly timeless.
Elizabeth Taylor  Taylor's Cleopatra co-star Richard Burton was her fifth husband. (And her sixth -- they remarried less than two years after their first divorce.) So it makes sense that, in 1964, she decided against a traditional white dress. Instead, Taylor opted for a round-necked daffodil yellow chiffon mini topped with a headdress made of white hyacinths and lilies of the valley. (She wore green to their do-over in 1976.)
InStyle.com: More celebrity couples who've tied the knot twice
Ivanka Trump  Donald's daughter was reportedly inspired by Grace Kelly's classic gown: She converted to Judaism in order to marry Jared Kushner in 2009, and required a slightly more covered-up style. Vera Wang was happy to oblige. "I seized on the chance to do a dress that wasn't naked," the designer said at the time.
Mia Farrow  At 21, she personified the adjective gamine: Her close-cropped hair perfectly complemented her delicate features. And the ensemble she wore to wed Frank Sinatra in 1966 -- a pale minidress paired with a short, boxy matching jacket -- likewise balanced sweet with chic.
InStyle.com: Exclusive photos from more celebrity weddings
Katie Holmes  Holmes once confessed that she fantasized about marrying Tom Cruise when she was a little girl -- and the ornate, off-the-shoulder Armani she wore to their 2006 Italian wedding may very well have been the sort of gown she imagined wearing. Adorned with Swarovski crystals, embroidery, and a silk train, and topped with a floor-length veil made of ivory tulle, this was a true dream dress.
See if your favorites made our list in our expanded gallery at InStyle.com
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2010 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
