After conquering the race track, superstar colt Frankel is set to become one of the most sought-after gigolos on the planet -- and his rival's mum could be the perfect love match.
In a plot reminiscent of a daytime soap opera, champion race horse Frankel would be an ideal mate to rival Black Caviar's mum, experts say.
Frankel wrapped up his stellar career in the Champion Stakes at Ascot on Saturday with an unblemished 14-win record, while Australian mare Black Caviar also remains unbeaten in 22 races.
The two highest-rated race horses in the world had been tipped to meet in the breeding sheds once six-year-old Black Caviar also retired.
But the "Brangelina" of the racing world wouldn't necessarily produce champion bundles of joy. In fact, distance runner Frankel may be better suited to Black Caviar's mum -- 11-year-old Australian mare Helsinge.
"To be honest, Frankel and Black Caviar's bloodlines aren't ideally suited," Richard Andrews, of Racing Victoria in Australia, told CNN, when asked if the equine equivalent of Hollywood stars Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie was on the cards.
"I would have their genetic make-up tested using the Equinome method -- this would ascertain if Frankel has any sprinting or middle distance genes in him.
"Otherwise a pure stayer to a pure sprinter could end up with a slow horse."
Black Caviar's co-owner Neil Warrett had hinted that Frankel may be a good match, telling Australian newspaper The Age: "We would consider going to Frankel because he is clearly the best distance horse in the world."
But it seems Black Caviar's mother Helsinge may be better suited to the task. She has already proved herself to be a wonder mom, giving birth to successful racing horses Moshe and All Too Hard.
Her recent foal, the half-sister to Black Caviar, sold for $2.6 million at auction in April.
Four-year-old Frankel earned Saudi owner Prince Khalid Abdullah more than $4 million in prize money on the race track.
But even greater returns await in his new life as a stud, with thoroughbred owners across the world sending in their mares' CV's in the hope of securing a date with arguably the greatest race horse of all time.
The British horse is expected to start his new duties in February, commanding a fee of $160,000 each time he sires a foal.
And with three to four mares falling under Frankel spell every day, the colt could notch up $16 million each year -- depending on his libido and fertility.
Mating usually takes place in a special breeding shed, with handlers overseeing the union. The mare will have thick padding placed on her back and hind feet to guard against injury of the expensive thoroughbreds.
Should he fail to rise to the occasion, Frankel may well return to the race course, as other champion thoroughbreds have done in the past.
For now, Frankel will have a few weeks rest before he heads to pastures new -- at Banstead Manor Stud, Cheveley - part of the Juddmonte Farms breeding arm of Abdullah's racing operation.
Frankel is quite the catch for equine cupids -- his father was 2001 Epsom Derby winner Galileo, while his mother Kind won six races during her career.
"As with most bluebloods, Frankel's colt would potentially be worth tens of millions of dollars," Andrews said.
"As a yearling (a race horse between one and two-years-old), it could be worth $3 million to $10 million -- depending on a potential bidding war between Ireland's Coolmore Stud Farm and Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum's Darley Stud Farm."
There's no guaranteeing the quality of Frankel's offspring. But if his parents are anything to go by -- father Galileo had huge stamina, while mother Kind possessed speed -- older female Helisinge may prove to be a match made in heaven.
