(CNN Student News) -- February 27, 2014
Covered this Thursday on CNN Student News: U.S. troops in Afghanistan, tourism in Brazil, Black History Month in the U.S., and a Character Study from a North Texas middle school. We'll also explain what Undulatus Asperatus is and show you how it looked as it flowed through the Atlanta skyline.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why do you think that audiences enjoy seeing stories about hero homecomings? Do you think that news coverage should include more of these kinds of stories? Explain.
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. favela
2. FIFA World Cup
3. Undulatus Asperatus
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. When are many of the U.S. troops currently in Afghanistan expected to come home? What responsibilities would be assigned to U.S. troops who remain there? Why is President Obama threatening to pull all U.S. troops out by the end of December? Why does one government official in Pakistan say that would be a mistake?
2. What is a favela? What major international sports event is coming to Brazil in June? How are some living in nearby favelas trying to take advantage of this event? What upsides can staying in a favela offer to tourists? According to the video, what are some of the problems associated with living in Rio de Janeiro's favelas?
3. In what field have Chelsi Henry and Atia Omara made a difference? How are these women involved in that field? What program did Kimberly Bryant launch? How has this program helped others?
4. How did the students honor Air Force Technical Sgt. Troy Harvey? How did Harvey react to the students' gesture?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion of a possible total withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan? Do you agree or disagree with President Obama's rationale? Explain.
2. In the video, we hear that favelas can offer World Cup visitors an "authentic experience." What does this phrase mean? When visiting another country, how might staying in a small village instead of a large city give a person unique insights into the country's people and culture? What might be some challenges associated with staying in a small village versus staying in a hotel in the city?
3. Who are some individuals you would like to see recognized for their contributions to contemporary Black History? In what fields have they excelled? How might their contributions inspire others?
4. Have you ever attended or organized a hero's homecoming? If so, describe the experience. How does an event like this impact the returning veteran and the community?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
