World number one Rafael Nadal has reached the semifinals of the Japan Open in Tokyo, but the tournament's second seed Andy Roddick is out.
Top seed Nadal beat Russia's Dimitry Tursunov 6-4 6-1 in just 72 minutes in Thursday's quarterfinal, despite having been a break of serve down in the opening set.
The Spaniard will next face Serbia's Viktor Troicki, who put out Guillermo Garcia-Lopez -- Nadal's conqueror in last week's Thailand Open semifinals.
"It's good for the confidence to keep winning after taking an important title like the U.S. Open," the 24-year-old Nadal told the official ATP website.
"When I go on court and I see a full stadium like here today, it is very nice. It is good for everyone."
However, it was not such a good day for 28-year-old American Roddick, who had a match-point in the final set of his quarterfinal, before going on to lose 7-6 (7-5) 4-6 7-6 (8-6) to fifth seed Gael Monfils.
It is the second year in a row Monfils has made the semifinals in Japan, and the Frenchman will be hoping to go one better on Saturday by defeating Radek Stepanek of the Czech Republic.
The unseeded Stepanek received a walkover to the next round, after Finland's Jarko Niemenen was forced to pull out of the tournament due to illness.
Meanwhile at the China Open, top seed Novak Djokovic moved one step closer to defending his title in Beijing after defeating France's Gilles Simon.
Djokovic came through 6-3 6-2 and the Serbian will now play big-serving American John Isner in the semis.
Isner, ranked 22 in the world, upset fourth seed Nikolay Davydenko of Russia 7-6 (7-2) 6-4 to book his match-up against the world number two on Saturday.
World number four Andy Murray did not make the semifinals however, beaten 6-4 6-2 by Croatia's 17th-ranked Ivan Ljubicic.
Ljubicic will play David Ferrer after the eight-seeded Spaniard stunned Sweden's No. 3 Robin Soderling 6-2 6-4.
In the women's tournament, new world No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki moved into the semifinals with a 7-6 (7-1) 6-4 victory over former top-ranked Serbian Ana Ivanovic of Serbia.
The 20-year-old Dane, who will be officially unveiled as Serena Williams' successor at the summit next week, will play Shahar Peer on Saturday after the Israeli 15th seed ended the run of young Swiss prospect Timea Bacsinszky with a 7-6 (7-4) 6-4 win in the final last-eight match.
Second seed Vera Zvonareva thrashed French Open champion Francesca Schiavone 6-0 6-2 to also reach the last four, where the Russian will take on home hope Li Na.
The Chinese ninth seed defeated Latvian qualifier Anastasija Sevastova 7-6 (8-6) 6-3.
Italy's Schiavone has now qualified for the end-of-season WTA Championships along with Australia's Samantha Stosur, who she beat in the final at Roland Garros.
Wozniacki, Zvonareva, Williams and U.S. Open champion Kim Clijsters had already sealed places in the eight-woman event in Doha.
