Barcelona beat Real Madrid 3-2 at the Camp Nou on Wednesday to claim the Spanish Super Cup in an ill-tempered El Clasico clash.
Lionel Messi's volley two minutes from time secured a 5-4 aggregate triumph for Josep Guardiola's side, after French striker Karim Benzema's goal in the 82nd minute looked to have forced the Spanish season's traditional curtain-raiser into extra-time.
Tempers flared in injury time when Brazilian full-back Marcelo's dismissal for a lunging tackle on Barca debutant Cesc Fabregas sparked a mass brawl between the two sets of players.
Barca's Spain striker David Villa and Real's Germany playmaker Mesut Ozil were red-carded for their involvement in the melee, despite both players having already been substituted.
Real coach Jose Mourinho also became involved when he was seen to poke the eye of Guardiola's assistant Tito Vilanova.
Recent matches between the two teams have seen similar scenes, with five clashes between the archrivals last season resulting in five red cards.
Having drawn Sunday's first leg 2-2 at the Bernabeu, European champions Barca went ahead in the tie when Andres Iniesta latched onto a through ball from FIFA Ballon d'Or winner Messi and clipped a finish over Iker Casillas in the Real goal.
Copa del Rey winners Real equalized five minutes later, when Portugal forward Cristiano Ronaldo prodded Benzema's low cross into the back of the net.
Barca regained the lead on the brink of half-time, when Messi found the net following a neat back-heel from center-back Gerard Pique.
Benzema scored a second equalizer for Real before Messi's late strike stole glory for Barca, but Mourinho was happy with what he saw from his charges.
"Real Madrid gave a spectacular performance from the first to the last minute," Mourinho told the nine-time European champion's web site. "I just say what I think. We came here to play.
Former Inter coach Mourinho stopped short of criticizing the referee for sending off two of his players, but the 48-year-old did appear to suggest Barca's players had made the most of the fouls which were committed.
"The referee must punish what he deems punishable," he said. "Pepe and Marcelo played a great game, one for the entire 90 minutes and the other for 45. Pepe saw a booking for a minor tackle and Marcelo gave a great performance.
"I'm not going to say we're happy because we didn't win the Spanish Super Cup; that would be hypocritical of me. We intend to play like men and not fall on the ground at the slightest touch."
Guardiola has now won 11 major honors since becoming Barca coach in 2008 and the former club captain was delighted with his team's performance.
"What will stay with me is the inhuman effort of the players," he said. "They responded like the players they are: eternal, mythical, unrepeatable, honest, who like to train and play football.
"Truthfully, seeing the way they responded, it's a privilege and honor to be their manager."
