Farrah Franklin, whose claim to fame is five months backing up Beyonce in the band Destiny's Child, was charged with disorderly conduct Sunday.
Franklin, 33, told police she planned to sleep in the woods after two pro football players she partied with earlier in the evening kicked her out of a house in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, early Sunday.
Da'Quan Bowers, a defensive end for the NFL's Tampa Bay Buccaneers, and Ricky Sapp, a Houston Texan linebacker, called police after she refused "to calm down" at Sapp's home early Sunday, the police report said.
Bowers, 24, told police he flew Franklin to Myrtle Beach from California "so they could hang out" at Sapp's home.
NFL's Da'Quan Bowers accused of having gun at airport
Sapp, 27, said that after an evening of drinking on the town, Franklin "became intoxicated, began acting strange, was yelling, slamming doors," the police report said.
Franklin ran out of the house when she heard them call police and "was last seen screaming in the neighbor's yard down the street," the police report quoted them saying.
The arresting officer wrote that he found Franklin "laying in a neighbor's yard."
"I could smell a strong odor of an alcoholic beverage emitting from the arrestee's person, her eyes were blood shot and glassy and she was unsteady on her feet," the officer wrote. "The arrestee appeared to be highly intoxicated."
Franklin admitted she had been drinking but denied she used drugs, the report said. "The arrestee stated she did not have any where else to go and was planning on sleeping in the woods."
Franklin was charged with disorderly conduct and held in the Horry County, South Carolina, jail until she was freed on $280 bail, according to jail records.
CNN has been unable to reach Franklin or her representative for comment. But she did post messages on Twitter after her release from jail Sunday evening that were apparently related to the arrest.
"Have a Blessed Sunday my Luvs @ Myrtle Beach International Airport," she tweeted. It was accompanied by an Instagram graphic that read "May the Lord turn all your sour moments into lemonade."
A later tweet said, "I'm good just hate the dumb media sometimes, but hey this is the job I signed up for."
Franklin, who lives in the Los Angeles area, was a member of the girl group for just five months in 2000. She was added to the group to replace another singer who had been dismissed by Mathew Knowles, father of its lead singer, Beyonce.
