An alleged commander for the Taliban and affiliated Haqqani network appeared in a U.S. court Tuesday to face a host of charges -- from supporting terrorism to attempted murder of an American citizen -- tied to a 2009 attack in Afghanistan.
Irek Ilgiz Hamidullin was in a federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, just outside of Washington, on Tuesday, less than a month after his indictment and on the same day that the charging document against him was released. His arraignment is scheduled for Friday, according to the Department of Justice.
According to the indictment, Hamidullin is a Russian citizen who once served in that nation's military as an officer and tank commander. He has been a follower of Mullah Omar, the head of the Taliban movement in Afghanistan, since 2001.
By 2009, the document alleges, Hamidullin was fighting for the Taliban and the Haqqani network, an organization the United States has designated as a foreign terrorist network. He allegedly coordinated an attack on Camp Leyza, an Afghan Border Police compound in eastern Afghanistan's Khost province, in November of that year.
Directing a large arsenal of weapons -- including machine guns, grenades, a portable rocket, an anti-aircraft gun and a recoilless rifle, the latter two of which were aimed to fire upon U.S. military aircraft should they arrive on site -- Hamidullin led the attack and then personally fired on U.S. and Afghan forces with a machine gun, the indictment states.
The document did not state the result of the attack, but said "a large number of insurgents were killed."
The Justice Department stated that the U.S. military took Hamidullin into custody then. The Russian citizen, now about 55 years old, was turned over to the FBI on Monday.
Charges he faces include conspiring to provide and providing material support for terrorists, conspiring and attempting to destroy a U.S. aircraft, as well as conspiring and attempting to kill a U.S. government employee -- in this case, members of the U.S. military.
Under federal law, a person doesn't have to have committed a crime in the United States for charges to be filed against them in U.S. courts. That's because laws for things like supporting terrorists or trying to kill U.S. citizens or employees apply outside of American soil.
In fact, many people have been brought back to the United States to be tried for attacks committed overseas. Still, it's rare for such charges to come out of the ongoing hostilities in Afghanistan.
"This is very unusual," said Yale Law School Professor Eugene Fidell.
CNN's Evan Perez contributed to this report.
