Wolf Blitzer, CNN's lead political anchor, has lived in the Washington area for 39 years.
"It's a wonderful place to live and visit. The history is all over the place; indeed around every corner. I love everything about Washington, especially the Kennedy Center and the museums," Blitzer said.
Blitzer shared some of his favorite capital spots and activities with CNN.com:
What essential thing should visitors see/experience if they only have a few hours?
The Holocaust Museum on the National Mall. It's really amazing and helps keep a lot of mundane things in perspective.
How do tourists stick out and what's the best way to blend in?
In the summer, they usually wear very comfortable shorts and T-shirts. Why would they want to blend in and have to wear a suit and tie?
Where was your most memorable meal?
I was invited to a State Dinner at the White House in 1979 when President Jimmy Carter hosted Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after they signed the Israeli-Egyptian Peace Treaty.
It was my most memorable meal, although I don't remember what I ate. I just remember it was delicious.
What's the biggest misconception about your city?
That everyone is just interested in politics. We also love sports -- the Washington Nationals, Wizards, Redskins and Caps.
Where can you get the best view of the city?
I love the view from atop the Newseum.
Which restaurant would you take your loved one to for an anniversary or other special occasion?
BLT Steak or Café Milano. Besides having terrific food, both restaurants have the setting and service to make a special event feel that much more special.
Where is the best place to people watch?
The Palm or Bourbon Steak at the Four Seasons
What is your favorite neighborhood?
Bethesda, Maryland -- a D.C. suburb. That's where I have lived for many years, and I feel very much at home there.
Where do you go to relax?
My backyard.
Where's your favorite place to spend a night out on the town?
A Washington Nationals baseball game with my friends.
Are there local specialty dishes or drinks that visitors must try?
Eggplant parmigiana and white pizza at Pines of Rome in Bethesda.
What's the biggest tourist trap?
There aren't any. All of [the attractions] are great and unique, but I especially love the Lincoln Memorial and the Jefferson Memorial.
What is a good local souvenir?
Check out the stuff at the Smithsonian gift shops. Nice souvenirs there.
