George Clooney will likely spend a lot of time at the Golden Globes podium next month, considering the number of nominations he and his two movies got Thursday from the Hollywood Foreign Press Association.
Clooney's "The Descendants" and "The Ides of March" are nominated nine times, and both films are among the six nominated for best drama. Clooney is also a contender for best actor in a drama for his "Descendants" role and for best director and best screenplay for "The Ides of March."
"Descendants" co-star Shailene Woodley is nominated for best supporting actress, Alexander Payne is up for best director and best screenplay.
"The Ides of March" earned a best drama movie actor nomination for Ryan Gosling, who also is nominated for best actor in a comedy film for "Crazy, Stupid, Love."
The other best drama film nominees include "The Help," which is nominated for five Globes, including a best drama actress nod for Viola Davis. Co-stars Octavia Spencer and Jessica Chastain are competing against each other for best supporting actress. Mary J. Blige's "The Living Proof" is nominated for best original song.
Best drama contender "Moneyball" is also nominated for best screenplay, while Brad Pitt, who portrayed baseball general manager Billy Beane, is up for best actor in a drama film. Jonah Hill, who played Beane's statistical wizard, is nominated for best supporting actor.
Steven Spielberg's "War Horse" is competing for best drama, and John Williams' music for the film is nominated for best original score. The movie is not up for any acting honors.
"Hugo" rounds out nominations for the best movie drama category. Martin Scorsese is also nominated for best director for the 3-D family film, while Howard Shore is up for best original score.
The best drama film actor category also includes Leonardo DiCaprio for his portrayal of the former FBI director in "J. Edgar," and Michael Fassbender for "Shame."
Meryl Streep, who has been nominated 25 times before for Globes and won seven of the trophies, is again in the running for best actress in a drama film. She is nominated for portraying former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in "The Iron Lady."
Glenn Close, who produced, co-wrote and stars in "Albert Nobbs," was nominated as best actress. Co-star Janet McTeer is nominated in the best supporting actress category.
Along with Davis, Streep and Close, the best drama actress competitors include Tilda Swinton for "We Need to Talk About Kevin" and Rooney Mara for "The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo."
The list of Golden Globe nominees for best comedy or musical films includes "The Artist," "50/50," "Bridesmaids," "Midnight in Paris" and "My Week With Marilyn."
"The Artist" has six nominations, the most of any other film. It drew a best acting nomination for Jean Dujardin, best supporting actress for Berenice Bejo, best original score for Ludovic Bource and best director and best screenplay nods for Michel Hazanavicius.
"Midnight in Paris" gained Woody Allen best director and best screenplay nominations, along with a best comedy film actor nomination for Owen Wilson.
"My Week With Marilyn" star Michelle Williams' portrayal of Marilyn Monroe put her into the best comedy actress competition, while co-star Kenneth Branagh is nominated for best supporting actor.
"50/50" lead Joseph Gordon-Levitt is nominated for best comedy actor, and "Bridesmaids" star Kristen Wiig is up for best comedy actress.
Other best comedy actress contenders are Kate Winslet and Jodie Foster, both for their roles in "Carnage," and Charlize Theron for "Young Adult."
Brendan Gleeson's "The Guard" performance earned a best comedy actor nomination.
The best supporting actor category, which covers dramas, comedies and musicals, also includes Albert Brooks for "Drive," Viggo Mortensen for "A Dangerous Method" and Christopher Plummer for "Beginners."
Golden Globe nominees for best animated feature film include Spielberg's "The Adventures of Tintin," "Arthur Christmas," "Cars 2," "Puss in Boots" and "Rango."
The best foreign-language films nominated include the Angelina Jolie-directed "In the Land of Blood and Honey," China's "Flowers of War," "The Kid With a Bike" from Belgium, the Iranian film "A Separation" and Spain's "The Skin I Live In."
Cable channel HBO dominated the Globes' television nominations with 18, including four for its mini-series "Mildred Pierce," three for drama series "Boardwalk Empire" and three for the movie "Cinema Verite."
"Mildred Pierce," a nominee for best TV mini-series or movie, also earned a best actress nomination for Kate Winslet, best supporting actress for Evan Rachel Wood and best supporting actor for Guy Pearce.
Another HBO best TV mini-series or movie nominee, "Cinema Verite," earned a best actress nomination for Diane Lane and best actor nomination for Tim Robbins.
Best TV drama series contender "Boardwalk Empire" star Steve Buscemi is contending for best actor and co-star.
Kelly MacDonald is nominated for best supporting actress.
Showtime was the second most-nominated TV channel with eight, including three for its drama series "Homeland" and two for the comedy series "Episodes."
"Homeland," vying for best TV drama series, boasts a best actress nomination for Claire Danes and best actor nomination for Damian Lewis.
Along with the best TV comedy nomination, Showtime's "Episodes" has a best actor nomination for Matt LeBlanc and best actress nomination for Laura Dern.
PBS followed with five nominations, including four for the British Masterpiece production "Downtown Abbey."
The 69th annual Golden Globes will be handed out in a televised ceremony at the Beverly Hilton Hotel on January 15.
