Internazionale moved up to second place in Italy's Serie A with a dour 1-0 victory over Cagliari on Saturday that put the defending champions within two points of rivals AC Milan.
Defender Andrea Ranocchia was credited with the only goal in the seventh minute in an unconvincing warm-up for Wednesday's Champions League final rematch with Bayern Munich.
AC Milan, beaten by English club Tottenham in Tuesday's last-16, first-leg tie in Europe's top club competition, will look to bounce back with victory at Chievo on Sunday. Napoli can regain second place with victory at home to Catania.
Inter caught the Cagliari defense unawares for the early winner, as a quickly-taken free-kick by Samuel Eto'o set up a chance for Goran Pandev, whose blocked shot was returned goalwards by on-loan Morocco midfielder Houssine Kharja and into the net off Ranocchia.
It was the 23-year-old Italy international's first goal since joining from Genoa last month.
Gattuso says sorry for Jordan 'head-butt'
It proved to be a match of few clear-cut chances as Inter missed the creativity of playmaker Wesley Sneijder, who was rested after injuring his groin in Wednesday's 2-1 win over Fiorentina.
Coach Leonardo also left out Brazil defender Lucio ahead of German club Bayern's visit to the San Siro.
"We struggled a bit but the main thing is that we got the three points," Inter fullback Maicon told the club's  website.
"AC Milan? We're just concentrating on ourselves, but having us breathing down their necks won't make things easy for them. And now we can focus on the Champions League."
The defeat left former Italy coach Roberto Donadoni's Sardinians in ninth place, 17 points off the lead.
Seventh-placed Palermo's hopes of qualifying for the European Champions League were dented by a 1-0 defeat at Bologna in Saturday's only other Serie A match.
The visitors played the final half-hour with only 10 men after Santiago Garcia was booked for the second time, and Bologna took advantage as substitute Daniele Paponi headed the only goal in the 90th minute.
The result left Palermo five points behind fourth-placed Lazio, who host bottom club Bari on Sunday.
Bologna took a big step towards safety, moving 10 points clear of the relegation zone.
