Editor's note: This article contains possible spoilers for the Olympic opening ceremony.
(EW.com) -- The opening ceremony for the 2012 Olympic Games has been shrouded in mystery, with director Danny Boyle keen to keep any details of the $42 million spectacle under wraps. However despite acknowledging that the Internet and social media make it too tempting for people to keep a secret and that spoilers are now part of "the modern world," Boyle graciously invited 60,000 fans to witness a rehearsal of the ceremony at the Olympic Stadium in London, days before the actual event, asking them to not tweet photos and suggesting the hashtag #savethesurprise.
Despite many of the clearly wowed audience sticking to the director's wishes, details have since emerged, so what exactly do we know? Or what do we think we know?
Way back in April it was rumored that Daniel Craig had filmed a segment as James Bond at Buckingham Palace with Boyle. This segment purportedly ends with Bond parachuting into the Olympic Stadium and kicking things off in style. We're betting the parachute bear a Union Jack, echoing the opening of "The Spy Who Loved Me."
OLYMPICS 2012: Get the latest news, photos, and more
The theme of the entire event is 'Isles of Wonder' and rumors of cottages, green fields with cricket matches and free roaming sheep present a chocolate-box ideal of the U.K., something more akin to the Shire.
With Boyle at the helm, director of "Trainspotting," "28 Days Later," "Slumdog Millionaire," and the recent stage adaption of "Frankenstein," we can't expect the events to be all sweetness and light. Aerial photographs have shown dark smoke stacks and The Huffington Post reports "There will be vignettes drawing on British history -- Boyle's people-power version of it -- including Depression-era jobless protesters and nurses performing a tribute to the National Health Service." One part of the stadium is even set up to look like the Empire Windrush -- a ship that brought migrants from the Caribbean to the U.K. in the 1940s.
Perhaps the most intriguing prediction comes from British newspaper The Sunday Times. Bordering on the so-crazy-it-just-might-work, the paper reports that a 40-foot Voldemort is set to do battle with an army of Mary Poppins'. Yes, you read that correctly. After a dance routine where approximately 100 kids dance on hospital beds, and representations of famous children's book characters join them, Voldemort pops out of a giant bed, surrounded by flying Dementors terrorizing the youngsters. This is where the 30 or so Mary Poppins' will float into the stadium to do battle with He Who Must Not Be Named.
The final act will feature a host of musicians, culminating in a performance of 'Hey Jude' by none other than He Who Must Not Be Silenced, Paul McCartney.
See the full article at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
