Need a break from shopping and celebrating the holidays? There will be lots of offerings at your local cinema as Hollywood is releasing a crop of new films through the end of the year.
NOW PLAYING
"Burlesque"
Plot summary: A small-town girl goes to California to perform in a burlesque musical revue.
Starring: Christina Aguilera, Cher, Stanley Tucci and Kristen Bell
"Faster"
Plot summary: An ex-con out to avenge his brother's murder must also deal with a hit man and a police officer hunting him.
Starring: Dwayne Johnson, Billy Bob Thornton and Maggie Grace
"Love and Other Drugs"
Plot summary: A pharmaceutical salesman begins a relationship with a woman who has Parkinson's disease.
Starring: Jake Gyllenhaal, Anne Hathaway and Judy Greer
"Tangled"
Plot summary: Love inspires the long-haired Princess Rapunzel to leave her tower in this reboot of a beloved fairy tale.
Starring: Voices of Mandy Moore, Zachary Levi and Donna Murphy
"The Legend of Pale Male"
* Limited release in New York
Plot summary: Documentary about a red-tailed hawk who becomes a famous resident of New York.
Starring: N/A
"The Nutcracker in 3D"
* Limited release; wide release December 3
Plot summary: The classic story of girl whose gift comes to life one Christmas Eve gets a modern, 3-D twist.
Starring: Elle Fanning, Nathan Lane and John Turturro
FRIDAY
"The King's Speech"
Plot summary: An Australian speech therapist tries to help King George VI of Britain overcome a speech impediment.
Starring: Colin Firth, Geoffrey Rush and Helena Bonham Carter
"London Boulevard"
Plot summary: A parolee battles with a gangster for the affections of a movie star.
Starring: Keira Knightley, Colin Farrell and Jamie Campbell Bower
DECEMBER 3
"All Good Things"
* Limited release in New York
Plot summary: Inspired by one of the most notorious unsolved crime cases in New York history, the film is part murder mystery, part love story.
Starring: Ryan Gosling, Kirsten Dunst, Kristen Wiig and Frank Langella
"The Assistants"
* Limited release in Los Angeles.
Plot summary: A group of Hollywood assistants struggle to get a film made.
Starring: Joe Mantegna, Jane Seymour, Stacy Keach and Chris Conner
"Black Swan"
Plot summary: A thriller in which a ballet dancer finds herself pitted against a newcomer as they both compete for the ultimate role.
Starring: Natalie Portman, Mila Kunis and Vincent Cassel
"I Love You Phillip Morris"
Plot summary: A con man meets the love of his life behind bars.
Starring: Jim Carrey, Ewan McGregor and Leslie Mann
"Dead Awake"
Plot summary: A young man attempts to unravel a past that is haunting him.
Starring: Nick Stahl, Rose McGowan and Amy Smart
"Meskada"
* Limited release
Plot summary: A detective's investigation of a boy's murder leads him back to his hometown.
Starring: Nick Stahl, Rachel Nichols, Kellan Lutz and Jonathan Tucker
"Night Catches Us"
* Limited release in New York; New Jersey; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and West Hollywood, California
Plot summary: In 1976, a young man returns after years of being away to the race-torn Philadelphia neighborhood where he grew up.
Starring: Anthony Mackie, Kerry Washington, Jamie Hector and Wendell Pierce
"The Warrior's Way"
Plot summary: A master swordsman seeks sanctuary in an American town after refusing a mission.
Starring: Jang Dong-gun, Kate Bosworth and Geoffrey Rush
DECEMBER 10
"The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader"
Plot summary: Lucy, Edmund and their cousin Eustace are drawn to Narnia again.
Starring: Georgie Henley, Skandar Keynes and Ben Barnes
"The Company Men"
Plot summary: Three men try to survive during a year in which their company undergoes corporate downsizing.
Starring: Tommy Lee Jones, Ben Affleck and Chris Cooper
"The Fighter"
Plot summary: The story of the early years of boxer "Irish" Micky Ward and his brother before the former went pro in the mid-1980s.
Starring: Mark Wahlberg, Christian Bale and Amy Adams
"Garden of Eden"
Plot summary: Promising American novelist David Bourne travels across Europe with his wife and her Italian girlfriend.
Starring: Jack Huston, Mena Suvari and Richard E. Grant
"The Tourist"
Plot summary: An Interpol agent draws a tourist into a web of intrigue.
Starring: Angelina Jolie, Johnny Depp and Paul Bettany
"You Won't Miss Me"
Plot Summary: A troubled young woman is released from a psychiatric hospital and lashes out at the world with a series of self-destructive acts.
Starring: Stella Schnabel, Simon O'Connor, Zachary Tucker and Borden Capalino
"The Tempest"
Plot summary: Based on Shakespeare's play, a vengeful sorceress unleashes her powers against shipwrecked enemies.
Starring: Helen Mirren, Russell Brand, Djimon Hounsou and Alfred Molina
DECEMBER 17
"And Soon the Darkness"
Plot summary: Two American girls bike in a remote part of Argentina when one disappears and the other must find her before it's too late.
Starring: Odette Yustman, Amber Heard, Karl Urban and Adriana Barraza.
"How Do You Know"
Plot summary: A woman is caught in a love triangle involving a baseball player and an old acquaintance.
Starring: Reese Witherspoon, Owen Wilson, Paul Rudd and Jack Nicholson
"Rabbit Hole"
* Limited release; wide release January 14
Plot Summary: A man and his wife struggle to come to terms with the accidental death of their 4-year-old son.
Starring: Nicole Kidman, Aaron Eckhart, Sandra Oh and Dianne Wiest
"Yogi Bear"
Plot summary: A documentary filmmaker travels to Jellystone Park where he discovers Yogi and Boo-Boo.
Starring: Voices of Anna Faris, Dan Aykroyd and Justin Timberlake
"Tron: Legacy"
Plot summary: A man is haunted by the disappearance of his father, a world-renowned video game developer.
Starring: Garrett Hedlund, Jeff Bridges and Olivia Wilde
DECEMBER 22
"Little Fockers"
Plot summary: The Focker family prepares for the arrival of a baby.
Starring: Robert De Niro, Ben Stiller and Teri Polo
"Somewhere"
Plot summary: A Hollywood bad-boy re-examines his life after an unexpected visit from his young daughter.
Starring: Stephen Dorff, Elle Fanning and Chris Pontius
"True Grit"
Plot summary: A teenager enlists the aid of a boozy, trigger-happy lawman to find her father's killer.
Starring: Jeff Bridges, Matt Damon, Josh Brolin and Hailee Steinfeld
"Gulliver's Travels"
Plot summary: A shipwrecked travel writer is a giant in Lilliput, land of little people.
Starring: Jack Black, Emily Blunt, Jason Segel and Billy Connolly
DECEMBER 25
"The Illusionist"
Plot summary: An aging magician bonds with a young fan who believes his tricks are real magic.
Starring: Voices of Jean-Claude Donda, Eilidh Rankin and Didier Gustin
DECEMBER 29
"Another Year"
Plot summary: A happy middle-aged couple are hit with life's highs and lows over the span of four seasons, including embracing their son's newly discovered partner and enduring an unexpected death in the family.
Starring: David Bradley, Jim Broadbent, Karina Fernandez and Oliver Maltman
"Biutiful"
Plot summary: A crook with a terminal illness tries to set his affairs in order.
Starring: Javier Bardem, Maricel Álvarez, Hanaa Bouchaib and Diarytou Daff
"Casino Jack"
Plot summary: Kevin Spacey stars as Washington lobbyist Jack Abramoff, whose greed and corruption get him in a heap of legal hot water.
Starring: Kevin Spacey, Barry Pepper, Jon Lovitz and Kelly Preston
"The Debt"
Plot summary: Past events haunt a former Mossad agent when she returns to Eastern Europe to investigate the apparent reappearance of a Nazi war criminal she thought was long dead.
Starring: Helen Mirren, Sam Worthington, Jessica Chastain and Jesper Christensen
"The Way Back"
Plot summary: This drama follows a group of soldiers who escaped from a Siberian gulag in 1940.
Starring: Colin Farrell, Jim Sturgess, Saoirse Ronan and Ed Harris
"Wild Target"
* Limited release
Plot summary: A respected hit man is thinking about retirement and starting a family when he meets a beautiful thief who may shake up his plans.
Starring: Bill Nighy, Emily Blunt and Rupert Grint
DECEMBER 31
"Blue Valentine"
Plot summary: A love story centered on a couple who try to save their marriage amidst the romantic memories of their past.
Starring: Ryan Gosling, Michelle Williams and John Doman
