Much has been said about Kim Kardashian in the weeks leading up to her wedding, and now the reality star is speaking for herself.
The 33-year-old opened up Wednesday on topics ranging from the truth about her wedding dress to racism.
For starters, she posted May 7, she and fiance Kanye West aren't married yet, despite speculation earlier in the week that the two had secured a marriage license.
They're also not going to film their upcoming nuptials for E!'s "Keeping Up With the Kardashians." "You will see everything leading up til and after!" Kardashian tweeted. "As much as we would love to share these memories on camera, we've decided to keep this close to our heart & share thru photos."
There's also been chatter about who will and won't be coming to the Kardashian-West wedding -- People magazine has indicated that the Kardashian family will be there, but not West's pals Jay Z and Beyonce -- while others have gossiped about the details of Kardashian's wedding dress.
Yet according to the reality star, her fans shouldn't believe a word "unless you hear it from us."
"No guest list has been released. Seeing fake ones," she tweeted. "Especially not 1600 people invited like I just read. (The wedding is) VERY small & intimate." And for that matter, she's seen "fake wedding dress pics of me. No one has seen my dress! Those photos are old or Photoshopped."
After Kardashian got those wedding-related thoughts off her chest, she turned to a more serious matter: how being a mother of a mixed-race child has affected her understanding of racism.
In a blog post titled "On My Mind," Kardashian spoke about how welcoming daughter North with West last June is like getting "to see the world for the first time again, but through someone else's eyes."
"It's amazing how one little person and the love I have for her has brought new meaning to every moment. What once seemed so important, now feels insignificant," she writes. "To be honest, before I had North, I never really gave racism or discrimination a lot of thought. It is obviously a topic that Kanye is passionate about, but I guess it was easier for me to believe that it was someone else's battle."
But with the arrival of her daughter, Kardashian says she's more aware "of a side of life that isn't always so pretty."
"I feel a responsibility as a mother, a public figure, a human being, to do what I can to make sure that not only my child, but all children, don't have to grow up in a world where they are judged by the color of their skin, or their gender, or their sexual orientation," Kardashian concluded. "I want my daughter growing up in a world where love for one another is the most important thing."
