As Kermit the Frog, Miss Piggy and the rest of their fuzzy friends prepared to return to the big screen for the first time in six years in their new film, "The Muppets" (also starring Jason Segal, Amy Adams and the newest addition to the Muppet brood, Walter), they took time out from their busy schedule of "SNL" visits,  Password games with Jimmy Fallon and their star-studded movie premiere to talk to CNN, and answer some questions submitted via iReport, about their beloved, late creator Jim Henson, their Hollywood crushes, and Piggy's glamorous new magazine job.
CNN: Miss Piggy, what is a typical day for you like as Plus-Size Editor at Vogue Paris?
Miss Piggy: I spend the whole morning meeting with designers, offering them moi's insights, inspiration and measurements. Then, I lunch and then, since it is Paris, we go to a lovely patisserie -- that's French for doughnut shop -- and pick up a few things to snack on during the afternoon. This is followed by meetings with people who apparently work for me, and then I go try on the clothes made by those designers I met with in the morning. Being a fashion editor is wonderful; play your cards right and you can get a whole wardrobe in a couple weeks.
CNN: Kermit, what are your happiest memories of Jim Henson?
Kermit the Frog: The work. We worked together right from the start, back when he did a local TV show called "Sam & Friends." We'd fool around, sing, and just make ourselves laugh -- and, what do you know, other folks started laughing and having a good time, too. Those are great memories.
CNN: What was it like moving on after Jim Henson died?
KTF: You don't move on. A part of him is inside of me, and that will be forever. I think of Jim every day, and try to make sure what the Muppets do would make him proud -- and make him laugh.
CNN: What is your favorite movie and why? And it can't be one that the Muppets have been in.
KTF: "Singin' in the Rain" -- and not just because frogs like rain. It's a perfect movie. Debbie Reynolds reminds me of Piggy when I first met her. (That's meant as a compliment, Ms. Reynolds.) Donald O'Connor is like Fozzie Bear, especially when he sings and dances to "Make 'Em Laugh." And Gene Kelly is just the best. I even got to dance with him to "Singing in the Rain" on "The Muppet Show." Gee, now that I talked about it, I want to go watch it again. Got popcorn?
CNN: Team Edward or Jacob?
MP: Team Kermit. Frogs, yes. Vampires and wolves, not so much.
CNN: Do you eat bacon for breakfast?
MP: No, I don't. Do you like having all your teeth?
CNN: Besides Kermit, which actors do you have a crush on and why?
MP: For moi, there is only Kermie. However, I do have teensy-weensy crushes on a few other cute guys. Brad Pitt, Brad Paisley, Bradley Cooper, Enrique Iglesias, George Clooney, Javier Bardem, David Beckham, Patrick Dempsey, Jonathan Rhys Meyers, Johnny Depp, Rodrigo Santoro -- I'll send you the complete list later; this is gonna take too long. As for why, I can only say: Duh!
CNN: Tell us about your first date.
KTF: I don't really remember our first date.
MP: As far as I'm concerned, we're still on it.
CNN: What is your most prized Muppet memorabilia and why?
KTF: I have the red curtain we used on the very first Muppet Show.
MP: I kept the frog.
CNN: Did you haze the new Muppet Walter at all?
KTF: Muppets don't haze --
MP: Yeah, we treat everyone the same.
KTF:  -- and we're sorry about that, Walter.
CNN: You are such seasoned professionals -- did you give any acting tips to Jason Segal, Amy Adams or the rest of the cast of "The Muppets"?
KTF: Well, Jason and Amy are real pros, too, so they don't need our advice. I watched and learned from them. Same goes for Chris Cooper. As for the other Muppets, you can't really give them acting tips, since I don't think any of them are acting; that's just them being themselves.
MP: I give everyone I work with the same advice: Don't get between moi and the camera, and there won't be any trouble. Très easy, n'est-ce pas?!
CNN: What are the Moopets doing now that you're all back together? Will we ever see them again?
KTF: Sorry, I can't help you. I'm not sure what the Moopets are up to now.
MP: Don't worry about it. It's taken care of.
KTF: What does that mean?
MP: It's best not to ask.
KTF: Sheesh.
CNN: What music are you listening to? Who are your favorite artists, what are your favorite albums of the year?
KTF: I like --
MP: AHEM!!!!
KTF: Uh -- Miss Piggy, who do I like?
MP: None of the female artists except moi.
KTF: What she said.
MP: And your favorite albums are the soundtrack to "The Muppets" (featuring moi) and "The Green Album" featuring songs made famous by moi -- and the other Muppets.
KTF: I couldn't have said it better myself.
MP: Not without injury.
