It's Memorial Day weekend, which can only mean one thing: time to sit inside an air-conditioned movie theater. To get ready for summer-blockbuster season, here's a roundup of the most buzzed-about movies being released through July:
"Sex and the City 2" Opened Genre: Romantic comedy Fans of the series will likely strut to theaters, despite the sequel's less than complimentary reviews.
"Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time" Opened  Genre: Action/adventure "Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time," starring Jake Gyllenhaal and Gemma Arteron, is based on the popular video game. It hasn't exactly been receiving rave reviews, but it stars Jake Gyllenhaal -- did we mention that already?
"Get Him to the Greek"  Opens: June 4  Genre: Comedy  Here's hoping that the "Forgetting Sarah Marshall" spinoff, featuring everyone's favorite fictional rock star, Aldous Snow, is as funny as the original.
"Killers"  Opens: June 4  Genre: Action/adventure  Katherine Heigl and Ashton Kutcher star in "Killers," a story about a happy couple who suddenly find they're being targeted because of Kutcher's old work as an undercover assassin.
"The Karate Kid" Opens: June 11 Genre: Family/action This summer flick is a remake of 1984's "The Karate Kid" and stars Will Smith's son, Jaden, and Jackie Chan.
"The A-Team" Opens: June 11 Genre: Action "The A-Team," starring Bradley Cooper, Liam Neeson and Jessica Biel, is based on the 1980s TV series that starred Mr. T.
"Toy Story 3" Opens: June 18 Genre: Animated "Toy Story 3" is the biggest animated film out this summer, coming on the heels of "Shrek Forever After," which was released last week. The 3-D movie once again features the voices of Tom Hanks and Tim Allen as Woody and Buzz Lightyear.
"Jonah Hex"  Opens: June 18  Genre: Action/thriller  The thriller, directed by Jimmy Hayward, stars Josh Brolin, John Malkovich and Megan Fox.
"Grown Ups"  Open: June 25  Genre: Comedy  It just wouldn't be summer without an Adam Sandler movie at the box office. The comedy's tagline, "Boys will be boys ... some longer than others," isn't exactly shocking for the star. If it ain't broke. ...
"Knight and Day"  Opens: June 25  Genre: Action/comedy  Cameron Diaz and Tom Cruise star as a fugitive couple on the run in "Knight and Day."
"The Twilight Saga: Eclipse" Opens: June 30 Genre: Fantasy June 30 will be an exciting day for Twihards. The third installment of the "Twilight" franchise once again stars Kristen Stewart, Robert Pattinson and Taylor Lautner.
"Despicable Me"  Opens: July 9  Genre: Animated  "Despicable Me" features the voices of Steve Carell, Kirsten Wiig, Russell Brand and Jason Segel. The flick is about supervillain Gru (Carell) and his plans to steal the moon.
"Inception" Opens: July 16 Genre: Sci-fi/action "Inception," which was directed by "The Dark Knight's" Christopher Nolan, stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Cillian Murphy and Ellen Page. The film takes place in a world where technology enables people, such as Dom Cobb (DiCaprio), to enter the minds of others.
"Salt" Opens: July 23 Genre: Action Angelina Jolie stars as Evelyn Salt, a CIA officer accused of being a Russian spy. The movie follows Salt as she resists being captured and attempts to prove her innocence.
"Dinner for Schmucks"  Opens: July 23  Genre: Comedy  Steve Carell, Paul Rudd and Zach Galifianakis -- need we say more?
