Trying to strike a balance between shedding his isolationist label and defending his nontraditional GOP views on foreign policy, Sen. Rand Paul took another jab Tuesday at his more hawkish colleague, Sen. John McCain.
In a discussion hosted by Paul Gigot, editorial page editor at The Wall Street Journal, Paul argued he's not in favor of a total abandonment of U.S. intervention overseas but was unapologetic in saying he's "one of the least reluctant to go to war."
"If I'm ever commander-in-chief, I will not want to take the country to war," the Kentucky Republican said. "It will be the last resort and only when the country is united."
Paul said he's not staking out an "all or none" approach on U.S. intervention.
"But I do believe less. I believe we've been everywhere all the time. We're about to bankrupt our country and there is great danger to what we've been doing," he said. "I want less. McCain wants more. He wants 15 countries more or 15 wars more."
His comments came at The Wall Street Journal's annual meeting of the CEO Council, an audience that overwhelmingly favors former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush as the 2016 Republican presidential nominee.
The jab against McCain marks the latest hit in an ongoing back-and-forth between the two senators over foreign policy. This summer they sparred publicly after Paul repeatedly pushed a widely-debunked claim that the Arizona senator took a photo with ISIS leaders when he went to Syria last year.
In turn, McCain blasted Paul for appearing to waver on his views about the fight against ISIS, saying Paul's change in tune weakened his "credibility" and argued he wouldn't be a good commander-in-chief on national security issues.
Brian Rogers, a spokesman for McCain, responded to Paul's latest comment on Tuesday.
"It's hard to take seriously the claims of someone who repeats debunked conspiracy theories spread by America's adversaries that Sen. McCain met with ISIS," Rogers said.
In Paul's remarks at the event, he brought up a Bloomberg/Des Moines Register poll from Iowa, saying that he liked how they framed a question on foreign policy asking whether the U.S. should be quicker to intervene in foreign conflicts "as John McCain suggests" or less interventionist, "as Rand Paul suggests."
With 41 percent agreeing with Paul's position -- slightly fewer than the 45 percent who sided with McCain -- Paul argued that a significant bulk of the electorate is on his side and pushed back against criticism that he maintains fringe views on national defense.
"That's a caricature and I'll have to fight that, but we'll see what happens," he said.
