Curtis "50 Cent" Jackson pleaded "no contest" to kicking in his ex-girlfriend's bedroom door, but a domestic violence charge against the rapper was dropped Monday.
A plea agreement with the Los Angeles city attorney allows Jackson to avoid jail while serving 36 months of unsupervised probation, according to a statement from the city attorney.
Jackson, 37, was accused of one count of domestic violence and four counts of vandalism for allegedly ransacking the bedroom during an argument at Daphne Joy's Los Angeles condo last June.
"The agreement called for Mr. Jackson to plead no contest to a single count of misdemeanor vandalism, which deals with the door of the apartment that was damaged and owned by the landlord," attorney Scott Leemon said.
Jackson does not admit guilt with a "no contest" plea, but it is considered a conviction, a spokesman for the city attorney said.
WIth the conviction, Jackson must perform 30 days of community service, attend a year of domestic violence counseling, pay $7,100 restitution for damaged property and comply with a stay-away protective order from Joy, the city attorney said. He'll have to appear in court on February 28, 2014, to show the judge his progress in completing the classes and community service.
Joy had a three-year relationship with Jackson and the two have a child together, according to a spokesman for the actress-model.
"During an argument, Jackson allegedly began destroying the female's property," the city prosecutor's office said in a written statement in July. "Allegedly when the female locked herself in her bedroom, Jackson kicked open the bedroom door and kicked her, causing an injury."
Police found broken chandeliers and furniture throughout the home. The bedroom closet was ransacked, with clothes thrown all over the floor, and there was a broken television and lamp, the prosecutor's office said.
Without the plea agreement, Jackson could have faced up to five years in jail and $46,000 in fines if convicted on all five counts.
CNN's Denise Quan contributed to this report.
