George Zimmerman, the Florida neighborhood watch volunteer at the center of a national firestorm over racial profiling, crime and gun rights, gave his first television interview on Wednesday, saying he had to act after Trayvon Martin said "you are going to die tonight" and reached for Zimmerman's gun holster.
Zimmerman sat for an interview with Fox News host Sean Hannity and expressed his regrets to the parents of Martin, 17.
He said he is neither a racist nor a murderer.
Zimmerman has been charged with second-degree murder for shooting Martin in what he says was self-defense. Martin was unarmed when he was killed in February while walking back to his father's girlfriend's house in a gated residential area of Sanford, Florida.
The watch volunteer said he can't now second-guess what happened.
"I feel it was all God's plan," Zimmerman said Wednesday.
Investigator: Zimmerman missed opportunities to defuse situation
Martin's family in a statement, said Zimmerman "does not regret anything he did that night."
"We must worship a different God because there is no way that my God would have wanted G. Zimmerman to kill my teenage son," father Tracy Martin said.
Zimmerman, who said he routinely carried a gun except when he was at work, told Hannity that Martin appeared to be suspicious as he cut between buildings.
Zimmerman said he moved toward a different area when police told him not to continue following the young man.
That's when he said Martin approached him, his body language "confrontational."
"He asked me what my problem was," Zimmerman said. "I said I did not have a problem." When he reached for his cell phone, Zimmerman said, Martin punched his nose and broke it.
Zimmerman said he didn't know whether he fell or was pushed to the ground. Martin straddled him and told him to shut up during their struggle, he said.
"He started bashing my head into the concrete sidewalk. As as he broke my nose I started yelling for help. I was disoriented," he said.
Zimmerman said it was his voice caught on a phone call screaming for help. "(Martin) started to try to suffocate me and I continued to push his hands off my mouth and nose." He said he was concerned he would lose consciousness.
Zimmerman told Hannity he had to shoot Martin when the latter told him he was going to die and made a move for Zimmerman's handgun.
Zimmerman, who apologized to Martin's parents during an April bond hearing, again expressed regret Wednesday.
"My wife and I don't have any children. I have nephews that I love more than life. I love them more than myself. And I know when they were born, it was a different unique bond and love that I have with them," Zimmerman told Fox. "And I love my children even though that they aren't born yet. I am sorry that they buried their child. I can't imagine what it must feel like. And I pray for them daily."
Witness alleges she was abused by suspect in Trayvon Martin killing
The 28-year-old has pleaded not guilty and has been free on $1 million bond since early July. He had been granted bail in April, then had it revoked after a judge found Zimmerman and his wife, Shellie Zimmerman, had failed to disclose more than $150,000 in donations from the public among their assets.
Police have said Zimmerman was not immediately charged because there was no evidence to disprove his account that he had acted in self-defense. A police report indicated he was bleeding from the nose and the back of his head.
A special prosecutor who took over the investigation eventually found that Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, racially profiled Martin, an African-American, and ignored a police dispatcher's instructions to stop following Martin.
Zimmerman was arrested in April on the murder charge. His wife was arrested on a perjury charge related to the donations in June.
Defense attorney Mark O'Mara told Hannity that he could not comment on the donations, given the case against Shellie Zimmerman.
He did say the case against his client would be an appropriate example of a "stand your ground" defense in Florida. Zimmerman said he had not heard of the law before the incident. He also said the media has made a rush to judgment.
Zimmerman asks for another new judge
Witnesses tell FBI that George Zimmerman is no racist
Timeline of events in Trayvon Martin case
CNN's Vivian Kuo contributed to this report.
