At 160 meters long, there is nothing quite as luxurious as the world's largest and most expensive super-yacht -- Dubai.
Roman Abramovich has one heli-pad on his yacht Pelorus, but he is rumored to be after a yacht with two.
Except, of course, for the next nineteen boats that make up the top 20 super-yachts on the planet.
Packed with more features than a Bond villain's base, including jet-ski docks, indoor swimming pools, helicopter pads (in some cases two helipads), Jacuzzis and submarines, no expense is spared on these ocean-going giants.
The internationally-renowned Fort Lauderdale Boat Show is set to get underway at the end of October, where many of the world's top super-yachts will be on display. Now, you can take a look at some of the biggest and best yachts in existence.
Included in our photo gallery are five of the top ten largest and most expensive super-yachts ever built -- and you'll recognize some of the names on the owners' list.
Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen's Octopus is inside the top ten, as is Oracle's Larry Ellison, with his vessel Rising Sun.
Click here to view a photo gallery of the super-yachts. »
Wealthy Middle Eastern businessmen and leaders also have a strong presence at the top. Dubai's Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum owns Dubai, the number one vessel, while the boat currently ranked second largest is owned by Sultan Qaboos of Oman.
Chelsea Football Club owner Roman Abramovich is also a major player on this list. Abramovich owns Pelorus, a 115-meter vessel which has its own heli-pad, while he reportedly gave away (!) Le Grand Bleu (currently the world's 16th biggest super-yacht) to present owner Eugene Shvidler.
As well as owning several other large yachts, Abramovich is believed to have a new super-yacht under construction. Rumored to be called Eclipse, the vessel is expected to overtake Dubai as the largest super-yacht in the world.
And it's also tipped to possess two helipads -- because obviously, one is never enough.
You won't want to think about how much Eclipse is going to cost, however, because Dubai, the world's current biggest yacht is reportedly worth well over $300 million.
Other super-yachts featured in the gallery are Australian businessman James Packer's Arctic P, and a French-owned yacht which French President Nicolas Sarkozy has spent time enjoying on vacation.
Which yacht would you most like to own and why? What super-toys would you fit your vessel with? Or is the super-yacht just a shameless display of wealth?
Have a look through our photos from Getty and monacoeye.com, make your comments in the Sound Off box below and we'll publish the best.
