A man used a fake Facebook account to lure a girl out of her home to stage a kidnapping and eventual rescue, but ended up killing her, according to a Maine State Police affidavit.
Kyle Dube, 20, of Orono, Maine, was indicted Wednesday on kidnapping and murder charges in the death of 15-year-old Nichole Cable, according to Tim Feeley, special assistant to the Maine attorney general.
Dube is accused of posing as a friend of Cable's on Facebook and repeatedly requesting to meet with her in person. The affidavit states that on May 12, she agreed to meet him to obtain marijuana believing him to be that friend.
According to the affidavit, police interviewed Dube's brother, who told them Dube gave him this account of what happened: He waited in the woods wearing a ski mask, jumped out of the bushes, duct-taped Cable and put her in the back of his father's truck. When he removed her from the truck, he realized she was dead and dumped her body in the woods.
Cable's body was found eight days later.
Dube's brother also told police that Kyle intended to kidnap Cable and he planned to "find" her later in an attempt to look like a hero, according to the affidavit.
The man whom Dube is accused of impersonating told police that he suspected Dube of creating a fraudulent Facebook account in his name. According to the affidavit, the man also said Dube wanted to have sex with Cable, but that she had refused his advances.
Dube faces a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison for the kidnapping charge, as well as 20 years to life for the murder charge, William Stokes, Maine deputy attorney general and chief of the criminal division, told CNN.
"There's a form of murder in which you may not have intended to kill, but that you engaged in conduct that had such high death-producing potential and depraved indifference to the value of human life," Stokes said. "When someone engages in that conduct, it's murder whether you intended to kill or not."
Cable's cause of death has not yet been determined. The medical examiner's office is still awaiting results on a few tests before making a final evaluation, Stokes said.
Stephen Smith, Dube's attorney, cautioned that Dube is innocent until proven guilty.
"The police never got a direct confession from him and the jury's still out," Smith told CNN. "We would urge the public to exercise some restraint and not leap to judgment."
Stokes said that Cable's family has been kept informed of the case. CNN's attempts to reach Cable's family were unsuccessful.
No court date has yet been set, Stokes said.
