Thomas Aiken will take a two-shot lead heading into Sunday's final round of the Spanish Open at the El Prat Golf Club near Barcelona.
The South African who led at the halfway stage shot an even-par round of 72 on a day that was inevitably overshadowed by the death of Seve Ballesteros, who lost his three-year battle with cancer in the early hours of Saturday morning.
With flags at half-mast and players donning black ribbons, the European Tour marked the five-time major winner's passing with a minute's silence followed by a round of applause.
Among the many players paying their respects to Ballesteros were his long-standing friends and Ryder Cup allies Jose Maria Olazabal and Miguel Angel Jimenez.
Colin Montgomerie, who played alongside Olazabal on Saturday said the Spaniard had been in tears for much of the third round.
"He has lost an older brother almost," Montgomerie said, EuropeanTour.com reported.
After his round, Olazabal reflected on the career of his great golfing companion.
"I don't think there will ever be another player like him. There can be others that are very good, but none will have his charisma," Olazabal said, EuropeanTour.com reported.
Spain's golfing maestro remembered
Pablo Larrazabal is currently tied for second place on six-under par and the highest placed Spaniard in an event which Ballesteros won three times during his career.
"Since I heard the news this morning I couldn't get it out of my head," Larrazabal said, EuropeanTour.com reported.
"It has been a tough day. I was on the eighth during the minute of silence. It was the saddest minute of my career," he added.
The former Henry Cotton Rookie of the Year has set his sights on winning the tournament on Sunday.
"If I hit the ball well and putt correctly I have a chance to win it and dedicate it to him and to his family," Larrazabal said, EuropeanTour.com reported.
Along with Aiken, who has yet to win on the European Tour, Larrazabal will have to fend off challenges from the Dane Anders Hansen -- who shot a three-under par 69 on Saturday to tie for second place -- and France's Romain Wattel and Scotland's Scott Jamieson who are also tied for second.
