(CNN Student News) -- October 3, 2013
In Thursday's program, we hear from some of the key players involved in the debate over the partial U.S. government shutdown. We also dig into the details of Roman-era skulls found in London, and we hear about the conservation efforts some students are making near the Chesapeake Bay. Plus, we meet a shark attack victim whose bionic leg is designed to act more like muscle than metal.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What messages might an audience get from reports about young people who are active in conservation efforts?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects from today's show:
1. empire
2. conservation
3. prosthesis
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Who are the current leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate? How do each of these leaders feel about the federal government shutdown?
2. What did the students in the video do to restore the stream? How should the log deflector help improve the health of the stream?
3. Describe how the bionic leg in the video mimics what a healthy leg can do. According to the report, how is this bionic leg different from most other prostheses that are currently available?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that President Obama chose to invite congressional leaders to meet with him at the White House? If you were an invited representative or senator from your state, what might you be thinking as you attended this meeting?
2. What do you think can be learned by examining the remains of ancient civilizations?
3. Are you aware of any instances of robotics being used to improve people's medical quality of life? If so, how? Can you think of any drawbacks to this use of technology? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Washington, D.C.
Europe
London
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
