A group of American and British pro-democracy activists accused of fomenting unrest in Egypt have left the country on a U.S. military plane, U.S. and Egyptian officials said Thursday.
The workers were among a group of international workers for pro-democracy groups that had been under a travel ban that Egypt's government lifted Wednesday. One of the organizations involved praised the decision, but expressed concern for its Egyptian staffers who remained behind.
Sixteen Americans were among the 43 workers for non-governmental organizations targeted in a December crackdown by Egypt's military-led government. They faced fraud charges before an Egyptian court, straining ties between Egypt and the United States, its leading ally.
An Egyptian appellate judge, Abdel Moez Ibrahim, said Wednesday that the charges are still pending. And a lawyer representing some of the defendants, Negad El Borei, said the defendants paid bail of 2 million Egyptian pounds (about $132,000) before being allowed to leave.
An Egyptian court opened their trial on fraud charges Sunday, but adjourned until late April after the charges were formally read. The three judges handling the case stepped down Tuesday.
The workers are charged with operating in Egypt without being officially registered and receiving foreign funding. Egyptian authorities called their work part of a pattern of international interference that was stoking continued protests against the current government. One of those charged is Sam LaHood, director of Egypt operations for the International Republican Institute and the son of U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood.
The group said Thursday that it "welcomes this decision and is hopeful that the charges against its expatriate and local Egyptian staff will be dismissed."
"IRI views the decision as a positive development, but remains very concerned about the situation and our Egyptian employees along with the continuing investigations of Egyptian civil society groups and the impact it will have on Egypt's ability to move forward with the democratic transition that so many Egyptians have sought," it said in a written statement.
Other groups targeted by the raids included the National Democratic Institute, Freedom House, the International Center for Journalists and the Konrad Adenauer Foundation.
Only seven of the Americans were believed to have remained in Egypt, all of them at the U.S. Embassy. Their departure could ease a tense patch between Egypt and the United States, which provides more than $1 billion in annual aid to Egypt's military.
