India will seek to become the No. 1 team in world cricket's Test rankings with victory in the final match of the series against Sri Lanka starting in Mumbai on Wednesday.
Mahendra Singh Dhoni's team will seek to overhaul both current incumbents South Africa and their second-placed visitors and clinch a 2-0 victory in the series.
"It will be an added responsibility. Becoming the number one side is not important, we've got to maintain our performance level," the captain told the official International Cricket Council Web site.
India will be without opener Gautam Gambhir, who scored centuries in the first two matches but will be absent due to his sister's wedding.
The inexperienced Murali Vijay is expected to win his second test cap as his replacement.
Sri Lanka, meanwhile, have dropped spinner Ajantha Mendis as they seek to bounce back from the crushing innings defeat in Kanpur and register a first victory on India soil.
Seam bowlers Nuwan Kulasekara and Dilhara Fernando are vying to take his place, having missed out as Sri Lanka employed a three-pronged spin attack last time out.
The tourists will be hoping for a better showing from veteran world record-holder Muttiah Muralitharan, who has taken just five wickets at a cost of 396 runs in the series.
"Murali is a bowler who has done so much for Sri Lanka and can sometimes have an off day. That's the way cricket goes," captain Kumar Sangakkara told the Cricinfo Web site.
"That doesn't mean he is any worse a bowler, he is still our best spinner and in my view the best spinner in the world. When you have that quality in the side you have to back that quality and that ability it's no different for tomorrow.
"Murali is still the spearhead of our attack and we back him 100% to turn it around and win a match for us."
Meanwhile, New Zealand's star pace bowler Shane Bond has been ruled out of the rest of the three-match Test series against Pakistan after yet another injury setback.
The 34-year-old was man of the match as he claimed eight wickets in the Black Caps' 32-run win in the opener in Dunedin, his first five-day international in two years, but has suffered an abdominal tear.
However, seamer Iain O'Brien expects to play in the second Test in Wellington starting on Thursday despite dislocating the middle finger of his right hand.
Australia have called up Victorian fast bowler Clinton McKay for the second Test against the West Indies in Adelaide after Brisbane hero Ben Hilfenhaus was ruled out by a knee injury.
Hilfenhaus took a five-wicket bag in Australia's comprehensive innings victory within three days in the opening match, but is now battling to be fit for the final Test in Perth from December 16.
