The Los Angeles coroner has concluded preliminarily that singer Michael Jackson died of an overdose of propofol, a powerful sedative he was given to help him sleep, according to court documents released Monday.
A search warrant filed in court showed toxicology reports found propofol in Michael Jackson's body.
Los Angeles coroner Dr. Lakshmanan Sathyavagiswaran reached that preliminary conclusion after reviewing toxicology results carried out on Jackson's blood, according to a search warrant and affidavit unsealed in Houston, Texas.
The affidavit, used to outline probable cause for search warrants of the offices of doctors who are believed to have treated Jackson, disclosed many details of drugs given to Jackson in the weeks before his death.
Jackson family lawyer Londell McMillan said the report "reaffirms the very sad reality that there was a tragic and gross violation of duty and care for Michael Jackson."
The publicist for Jackson's family said the "family looks forward to the day that justice can be served."
"The Jackson family has full confidence in the legal process, and commends the ongoing efforts of the L.A. County Coroner, the L.A. District Attorney and the L.A. Police Department," the statement said.
The Associated Press is quoting a single law enforcement official, who said the L.A. County Coroner ruled Michael Jackson's death a homicide. The Los Angeles County Coroner's office told CNN they had "no comment" on the report. An LAPD spokesman said the story did not come from their department.
"We will not comment on the "anonymous" law enforcement source that claims that Michael Jackson's death will be ruled a homicide," Murray's lawyer Ed Chernoff said in a statement on his firm's Web site. "Most of the reports by "anonymous" sources have been proven wrong. We will be happy to address the Coroner's report when it is officially released."
The 32-page warrant said Dr. Conrad Murray, Jackson's personal physician, told a detective that he had been treating Jackson for insomnia for six weeks. Murray said each night he gave Jackson 50 mg of propofol, also known as Diprivan, diluted with the anesthetic lidocaine via an intravenous drip.  Watch what court documents show about Jackson's last hours »
Worried that Jackson may have been becoming addicted to the drug, the Houston cardiologist said he attempted to wean him from it, putting together combinations of other drugs that succeeded in helping Jackson sleep during the two nights prior to his death.
On June 22 Murray said he gave Jackson a cocktail of drugs similar to what he gave him on the day he died, June 25 -- propofol, Ativan and Versed, which helped the star fall asleep, according to the documents. On June 23 he gave Jackson only the Ativan and Versed, which helped him sleep.
But on June 25, other drugs failed to do the job, as Murray recounted to detectives in an hour-by-hour account detailed by detective Orlando Martinez of the Los Angeles Police Department:  Learn more about the events of the night Jackson died »
-- At about 1:30 a.m., Murray gave Jackson 10 mg of Valium.
-- At about 2 a.m., he injected Jackson with 2 mg of the anti-anxiety drug Ativan.
-- At about 3 a.m., Murray then administered 2 mg of the sedative Versed.
-- At about 5 a.m., he administered another 2 mg of Ativan.
-- At about 7:30 a.m., Murray gave Jackson yet another 2 mg of Versed while monitoring him with a device that measured the oxygen saturation of his blood.
-- At about 10:40 a.m., "after repeated demands/requests from Jackson," Murray administered 25 mg of propofol, the document said.
"Jackson finally went to sleep and Murray stated that he remained monitoring him. After approximately 10 minutes, Murray stated he left Jackson's side to go to the restroom and relieve himself. Murray stated he was out of the room for about two minutes maximum. Upon his return, Murray noticed that Jackson was no longer breathing," the affidavit said.
Efforts at CPR proved fruitless, according to Murray.
Shortly after Murray said he found Jackson not breathing, Murray was on the phone with three separate callers starting at 11:18 a.m. and ending at 12:05 p.m., according to the court documents which cite the doctor's phone records.
"Murray didn't tell this to anyone when he was interviewed," the court documents said.
Chernoff denied the timeline referenced in the affidavit.
"Much of what was in the search warrant affidavit is factual. However, unfortunately, much is police theory. Most egregiously, the timeline reported by law enforcement was not obtained through interviews with Dr. Murray, as was implied by the affidavit," the statement said. "Dr. Murray simply never told investigators that he found Michael Jackson at 11:00 a.m. not breathing. He also never said that he waited a mere 10 minutes before leaving to make several phone calls. In fact, Dr. Murray never said that he left Michael Jackson's room to make phone calls at all."
The document also cited reports from staff at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center, where Jackson's body was taken, who said Murray "admitted" to having given Jackson flumazenil to counteract the Ativan.
The document lists another five doctors and a nurse practitioner who reportedly treated Jackson.
"Detectives ... believe that the miscellaneous prescriptions, from multiple doctors ... could have contributed to his death," the document said.
"It cannot be determined whether the cause of death is due to the actions of a single night and/or a single doctor, or the grossly negligent treatment of several doctors over an extended period of time."
According to the warrant and affidavit, Murray said he was not the first doctor to give Jackson the powerful anesthetic, which the singer called his "milk." The drug has a milky appearance.
Jackson also told Murray about two unknown doctors in Germany who gave him propofol, according to documents.
Documents show police found eight bottles of propofol inside Jackson's home.
A search of Murray's doctor bag, which he left at the house the day Jackson died, contained multiple bottles/vials of Lidocaine and several bottles/vials of propofol, Ativan, Versed and Anexate, according to the documents.
The affidavit said a search of Jackson's home revealed "numerous bottles of medications" at Jackson's bedside that were prescribed by Murray and two other physicians -- Dr. Allan Metzger and Dr. Arnold Klein.
Many of the drugs "have an indicated or off label use in the treatment of insomnia," the affidavit said.
Metzger's lawyer told CNN last month that Metzger -- who treated Jackson in 2003 -- refused Jackson's request in April for a propofol prescription.
Klein -- a dermatologist who also was Jackson's longtime friend -- has insisted he never gave Jackson dangerous drugs.
Jackson visited Klein's Beverly Hills, California, medical office just days before his June 25 death.
Murray took the job as Jackson's personal physician in May, as the pop star was preparing for a series of comeback concerts set to begin in July at London's O2 arena.
Murray told investigators that Jackson would not tell him what drugs other doctors had given him, but he did tell Murray the medicine given to him by Klein and Metzger was not working, the affidavit said.
The DEA has been unable to find a record of Dr. Murray purchasing, ordering or obtaining any propofol under his medical license or DEA number, according to the documents.
CNN's Alan Duke and Mallory Simon contributed to this report.
