Authorities on Tuesday released the identities of five slain people whose bodies were found at two addresses in rural Franklin County, and stressed that none of them was responsible for the killings.
Wanda Lee, the Franklin County coroner, said the victims were Roy D. Napier, 50; Angela Napier, 47; Melissa Napier 23; Jacob Napier 18; and Henry Smith 43. All five were residents of Laurel, Indiana, Lee said.
The Napiers all had been shot in the head, Lee said, and Angela Napier also had suffered blunt-force trauma to the head.
Henry Smith had been shot in the chest and also suffered blunt-force trauma to the head, the coroner said.
However, Lee cautioned, the official causes of death will not be determined until all autopsies are complete.
State police have officially launched a murder investigation into the case, and called on members of the public to be watchful and vigilant for their own safety.
"We are looking at all motives for this crime," said Franklin County Sheriff Ken Murphy. "We do not have a motive for this crime yet."
Sgt. Jerry Goodin of the Indiana state police added that although no suspects are yet known, "It doesn't matter where they are at -- I can tell you this, anywhere in the United States or anywhere in the world, we're gonna be going after them, whoever it is that's responsible for these killings, so it doesn't matter to us where they're at."
Authorities first got a call Sunday afternoon from people concerned about a small child wandering near the street along Stipps Hill Road near Laurel, in eastern Indiana about halfway between Indianapolis and Cincinnati. Not seeing any adults around, some citizens stayed with the child until police arrived.
After "gaining more information" by talking with the child and neighbors, a Franklin County sheriff's deputy requested help. That led to the discovery of a dead man at one address and four other fatalities -- two males and two females -- at an address across the street, said Goodin of the state police.
He said Monday night that "the child is safe," declining to elaborate.
