Manchester United veteran Ryan Giggs has signed a new one-year contract that will extend his career to 21 seasons with the English Premier League leaders.
The 37-year-old Welsh midfielder, seeking to help United win a record 19th English league title this year and his 12th, made his debut for his only team in March 1991.
He has made a club-record 862 first-team outings, scoring 158 goals, as a key figure under manager Alex Ferguson -- who signed him on his 14th birthday from the youth development school of local rivals Manchester City.
"You run out of words to describe Ryan Giggs. He is a marvellous player and a wonderful man," Ferguson told United's website on Friday.
Has Rooney joined the ranks of football's immortals?
"To have the desire and the ability to play at the top level in such a physically demanding position at his age requires a special person.
"He is still turning in man-of-the-match performances, and his experience is so vital for the younger players in the squad."
Giggs, twice a European Champions League winner, has kept up his record as the only player to score in every season since the English Premier League's inception in 1992.
"All I've ever wanted to do is play for United, and I've been lucky enough to do that for 20 years," he said, having extended his previous one-year deal.
"It's great to know I'm still contributing to the team's success and I feel I've got a lot to offer on and off the pitch. This is an exciting time to be involved with so many good young players coming through."
Cup magic shared by cross-channel minnows
Giggs is in the United squad for Saturday's FA Cup fifth-round clash with non-league club Crawley, as he seeks to win England's fabled knockout competition for the fifth time this year.
In a top-flight tie, cup holders Chelsea host Everton, while Birmingham and Stoke face third division opposition in Sheffield Wednesday and Brighton respectively.
On Sunday, Arsenal travel to Leyton Orient, Manchester City host another division three team Notts County, and Fulham take on Premier League rivals Bolton.
