(CNN Student News) -- June 6, 2014
A look back, a look ahead, and a look at stories making headlines today are all part of this June 6 edition of CNN Student News. Subjects covered include D-Day and a General Motors investigation. We'll also recap some of the biggest news events of the school year.
This is the last edition of CNN Student News for the 2013-2014 school year. We look forward to seeing you in mid-August!
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
End of Year Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this school year on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What former president of South Africa and anti-apartheid leader passed away in December?
2. What organization oversees most college sports in the U.S.?
3. In what city and country were the 2014 Winter Olympics held?
4. Janet Yellen was confirmed as the first woman to chair what U.S. government body?
5. What building, at a height of 1,776 feet, is now the tallest in the U.S.?
6. What is the nickname for the Affordable Care Act, an extensively debated U.S. health care law?
7. What country saw clashes between pro-Russian and pro-European groups in its capital, Kiev?
8. What war-torn country's largest city is Aleppo?
9. With what world leader did President Obama meet in Vatican City?
10. What is the name of the deadly hemorrhagic fever that broke out in the West African nation of Guinea?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
