(CNNGo) -- Check out these five standout watering holes around the globe. No card key required.
Rock Bar, Ayana Resort & Spa in Bali, Indonesia
Guests ride a special cable car down a dramatic cliff face to get to this brilliantly engineered bar, above, perched just 46 feet above the Indian Ocean.
Once there, the experience is dramatic.
Bartenders pour creative cocktails set to beats spun from a DJ booth carved into the stone.
The minimalistic space, designed by Yasuhiro Koichi of Japan's Design Studio SPIN, is one of the best places to watch the sunset in Bali.
(Ayana Resort and Spa, Jimbaran, Bali, tel: +62 361 702222, website: ayanaresort.com/rockbarbali.)
What to drink: A martini -- on the rocks, of course.
Red2One, W Santiago, Santiago, Chile
Red2One is Santiago's most exclusive bar. Designed by Chilean Sergio Echeverria and New Yorker Tony Chi, the space puts a modern twist on traditional Chilean décor.
Pops of red are juxtaposed against clean white sofas and natural wood floors.
The views of the snow-capped Andes are unmatched amongst its Chilean bar brethren.
(Isidora Goyenechea 3000, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile, Tel: +56+ (2) 770 0000, website: starwoodhotels.com.)
What to drink: A virgin strawberry mojito. That's what Beyonce and Jay-Z sipped on a recent stop there.
Check out other great travel tips and destinations at Five To Go
Icebar, Icehotel, Copenhagen
A novelty, no doubt, but Icebar is still a marvelous place to, well, chill out.
Everything, and we mean everything, is made of ice, from the furniture to the cocktail glasses to the gleaming art.
Check out the raven in a cage, the full scale Harley Davidson and the boxes filled with miniature treasures -- all made of frozen H20.
(Hotel Twentyseven, Løngangstræde 27, Copenhagen, Tel: +45 7027 5627, website: icebarcph.com.)
What to drink: A vodka shot warms the body and soul.
Blu Bar on 36, Shangri-La Hotel in The Rocks, Sydney, Australia
Set on the 36th floor of the Shangri-La Hotel in The Rocks, the New York-inspired bar offers views of Darling Harbour, Sydney Harbour Bridge and the Opera House.
A marble hallway entrance opens to two distinct chambers, a fluorescent blue bar and a lounge.
The latter features minimalist décor, plush seating, dim lighting and floor-to-ceiling glass windows.
(176 Cumberland St, Sydney, Tel: +02 9250 6013, shangri-la.com.)
What to drink: The Holy Amigo, a blend of Herradura tequila, Crème de Peche and peach bitters packs a punch.
Bemelmans Bar, Carlyle Hotel, New York City
Dark and decadent, Bemelmans competes for the city's most dapper nightspot.
No detail has been left un-fancified: White-jacket waiters, nickel-trimmed glass tables, chocolate-brown leather banquettes and a 24-karat gold leaf-covered ceiling.
But the most interesting aspect of Bemelmans is the wall art by Ludwig Bemelmans, the creator of the Madeline books and the bar's namesake.
(35 E. 76th St., at Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10021, Tel: 1 (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com.)
What to drink: The Old Cuban, a mojito topped with champagne.
CNNGo.com: See even more great hotel bars
© 2011 Cable News Network Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
