When it comes to competing on "The Bachelorette," you can't blame a guy for trying.
And try runner-up Nick Viall did -- by slipping a letter to Andi Dorfman after she had selected contestant Josh Murray to receive her final rose. Following Monday's finale in which Dorfman dumped Viall, much was made about the letter he had written to her after their breakup.
The letter has now gone viral after the show posted it on its Facebook page.
In it, Viall pours out his feelings for Dorfman.
"You lit me up," he wrote. "You made me feel those things that people go a lifetime to find, and I feel like I made you feel the same."
Viall continued, "I fully realize that in the end I could have been wrong about what we had. While it's hard to accept, I totally realize that it's a possibility. With that being said, when I think about the relationship that we had, very few things in my life have felt more real."
Not at all awkward, given that Dorfman is now engaged to Murray, right?
Viall let it be known that if that relationship doesn't work out, Dorfman still has a shot with him -- though he made no promises about a happy ending. Rather, he said, he was "not going to say that if by some miracle you changed your mind and were willing to give us a shot that we would definitely make it. I don't know that."
"I think that if we were willing to trust each other, be totally vulnerable with one another, and follow our hearts, we would have a great chance," Viall wrote. "What I could promise you is that if we did make it, we would be anything but good. It would be exciting, sometimes even hard, but definitely great."
The Chicago-based businessman has proven to be a contestant who is willing to share. During the "After the Final Rose" ceremony, Viall appeared to break the unspoken "Bachelorette/Bachelor" code of revealing that he and Dorfman had been intimate during their fantasy suite time.
At least Viall ended his letter on a hopeful note.
"I realize I have to move on and I mean it when I say that if you're truly happy with your decision and I haven't been a thought on your mind, then I want that happiness to continue for you," he wrote.
"If I have to move on, I will look to find amazing with someone else. ... I just know I would much rather turn my life upside down and risk it all to have amazing with you."
