Catania manager Rolando Maran was not even alive the last time his club claimed a home win over AC Milan in the top-flight.
Maran was born on July 14, 1963, just two months after Catania had pulled off victory against a Milan team which would go on to win the European Cup three days later.
Led by the prolific Jose Altafini, Milan went on to defeat a Benfica side which had won the trophy in each of the previous two years and claim the title as the first Italian team to have won the competition.
What a contrast to that of a few days earlier when Catania pulled off a famous victory, courtesy of a goal from Bruno Petroni -- a player on loan from AC's famous rivals, Internazionale.
Back to the future
Fast forward to the present day and Maran was hoping his side could reverse their awful record against the Rossoneri.
It began in perfect fashion when Nicola Legrottaglie headed home Francesco Lodi's corner with just 11 minutes on the clock.
Milan stuns leaders Juventus
Milan, looking for back-to-back wins in Serie A for the first time this season following its victory against Juventus last week, looked lethargic in the opening exchanges.
Sergio Almiron should have doubled Catania's advantage but sent his free header wide of the goal from just six-yards.
It was not until the second period that Milan really began to exert its dominance and even then it took the sending off of Pablo Barrientos to inspire them.
Red card
Barrientos, already on a booking, only had himself to blame after taking a pointless swipe at Antonio Nocerino which earned him a second yellow card.
That gave Milan the boost it was looking for and El Shaarway fired home a 53rd minute equalizer.
Milan forged into the lead three minutes later as Boateng beat Lodi, before unleashing a rasping effort into the top corner.
Milan continued to dominate with El Shaarawy and Robinho both missing glorious opportunities to seal the points, while Urby Emanuelson hit a post.
Milan were reduced to 10-men in the final minute when Boateng was dismissed for a rash challenge.
But El Shaarway sealed the win, bending home his second of the night and 12th of the season to fire Milan up to seventh place and leave Maran dreaming of that famous victory.
