Joran van der Sloot told investigators during an interrogation that he knows the location of Natalee Holloway's body, but he would neither identify the location nor say what happened to her the night of her disappearance, a Peruvian police official told said Thursday in Lima, Peru.
"He says he knew the location of the American citizen but that he was going to explain everything to Aruban police," said Miguel Canlla, head of the homicide division of the Peruvian national police investigative unit.
Van der Sloot, a 22-year-old Dutch citizen, is suspected of killing a 21-year-old woman in Lima last month. Stephany Flores Ramirez was found beaten to death in a hotel room registered in van der Sloot's name. Van der Sloot was captured in Chile and returned last week to Peru, where authorities say he confessed to killing Flores.
He was twice arrested in connection with the 2005 disappearance of Holloway, who was on a class trip to Aruba, but was released for lack of evidence.
This week U.S. authorities filed extortion and wire fraud charges against the Dutchman. An Interpol document says van der Sloot faces criminal charges in Alabama because he allegedly tried to extort money from Holloway's mother.
A federal law enforcement agent told CNN that a representative for Natalee Holloway's mother who paid $25,000 for information on the whereabouts of her daughter's remains last month was an undercover FBI agent.
Van der Sloot said he would reveal the location of the body and the circumstances surrounding her death for $25,000 in cash and asked for $250,000 in total, the document states.
The FBI and U.S. Attorney's office in Birmingham arranged for a meeting where van der Sloot was paid $10,000 in cash and another $15,000 in a wire transfer for information van der Sloot allegedly promised would lead to Holloway's body in Aruba, a source familiar with the case said.
The meeting took place last month, according to the U.S. attorney's office in Birmingham.
Interpol documents show that the $15,000 was transferred to a personal bank account in the Netherlands.
It's unclear whether that money paid for van der Sloot's trip to Colombia and to Peru.
In exchange for the money, van der Sloot showed the representative a house where supposedly Holloway's remains were, according to the document. When records showed that the house had not yet been built at the time of her disappearance, van der Sloot admitted that he lied, Interpol said.
