World number one Caroline Wozniacki made a shock exit from the Rogers Cup in Toronto after losing her second round match to Roberta Vinci 6-4 7-5 Wednesday night.
Defending champion Wozniacki looked set to force the match into a third and deciding set after building a 5-1 lead in the second, but her Italian opponent rallied to clinch her first victory against a top-five ranked player.
"I thought I could win today," Vinci, 28, told the WTA Tour's official web site. "I knew it wouldn't be easy, but I thought I could.
"I saw she was making a lot of mistakes, especially in the first set; then in the second set I was just focusing on every point when I was down, trying to stay aggressive and hit some slice to her forehand when possible."
Wozniacki first rose to the top of the rankings in October 2010, but the Dane has yet to capture a grand slam title and admitted world number 22 Vinci had outplayed her on Wednesday.
"Today was definitely not my best match," said Wozniacki. "It was very difficult with the wind but also the way Vinci was playing, I didn't get a chance to really get any rhythm."
"She slices the ball. It's tough to get under it, and then she really goes for it on the forehand. She was getting a lot of balls back, as well. She did better than me."
Vinci will come up against Serb Ana Ivanovic in the third round, after the 23-year-old's second round opponent Iveta Benesova was forced to retire in the third set of their encounter.
Sixth seed and French Open champion Li Na also benefited from a withdrawal, with Peng Shuai unable to compete due to a hip injury.
Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova battled back from 3-1 down in the first set to clinch her match with Anabel Medina Garrigues 7-6 (7-3) 6-3 and Serena Williams' winning streak is up to seven matches after the American beat Germany's Julia Goerges 6-1 7-6 (9-7).
Williams, 29, will now face Zheng Jie, who benefitted from second seed Kim Clijsters' retirement on Tuesday.
Third seed Vera Zvonareva notched up a straight-sets success against Nadia Petrova to set up a third round clash with Poland's Agnieszka Radwanska, who defeated Croat Petra Martic 6-3 6-3.
Maria Sharapova, who was beaten in the 2011 Wimbledon final by Kvitova, is into the round of 16 courtesy of a 6-1 7-5 triumph against Bojana Jovanovski.
Sharapova, seeded fifth, will play Gaina Voskoboeva after the qualifier beat Italian Flavia Pennetta.
