One of three remaining defendants in the "Bling Ring" pleaded no contest Friday to burglarizing the home of Lindsay Lohan in 2009 and was sentenced, the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office said in a news release.
Superior Court Judge Larry Paul Fidler sentenced Diana Tamayo, 22, to three years of probation and ordered her to complete 60 days of work for the California Department of Transportation. That could involve picking up trash from the side of the road, said DA spokeswoman Jane Robison.
Tamayo was given credit for the 10 days she served in jail.
It was not clear whether she had legal representation.
In exchange for the plea, the DA's office asked for the dismissal of a felony count of conspiracy to commit burglary and a count of receiving stolen property.
Tamayo is to return to court on November 8 for a restitution hearing.
The two remaining defendants in the case -- Courtney Leigh Ames, 21; and Roy Lopez Jr., 30 -- also are to appear on that date for a pretrial hearing. They are charged with conspiracy, first-degree residential burglary and receiving stolen property.
The three are among five people indicted in 2010. The indictment alleges that, between September 2008 and August 2009, they took more than $3 million in jewelry, clothes and accessories from the homes of Orlando Bloom, Paris Hilton, Brian Austin-Green and Megan Fox, Lindsay Lohan and "The Hills" reality star Audrina Patridge.
Two ringleaders, Nicholas Prugo and Rachel Lee, pleaded earlier.
Lee was sentenced last year to four years in prison for burglarizing Patridge's home. Lee pleaded no contest to one count of first-degree residential burglary.
Lohan's home was burglarized on August 2009, and an estimated $128,000 in jewelry, designer clothes and accessories was taken, authorities said.
Authorities said they believe an obsession with celebrity culture -- and breaking inside their homes and wearing their clothing -- could have been the motivation for the crimes.
The group allegedly studied celebrity magazines to pick out clothing and jewelry that they wanted, and then studied satellite maps of the victim's homes before deciding on the best method for entry, police said.
At first, police treated each robbery as a separate incident, but after noticing similarities on surveillance video from the homes of Patridge and Lohan, they concluded that the incidents were related.
"There's nothing to suggest that these kids were criminal masterminds -- this wasn't an 'Ocean's 11' caper," Los Angeles Police Department Officer Brett Goodkin told CNN in 2009. "It's really a series of quite run-of-the-mill residential burglaries, except they targeted the victims for who they are."
The ring has also been dubbed the Hollywood Hills Burglar Bunch.
