CNN en Español will launch CNN Latino, a new Spanish language syndicated programming block custom made for the U.S. Hispanic market, in late January 2013.
CNN Latino targets the growing and diverse U.S. Hispanic market, delivering a broad spectrum of programming that will include news, lifestyle, documentary, talk and debate as an alternative to traditional Hispanic networks.
Cynthia Hudson-Fernandez, senior vice president and general manager of CNN en Español and Hispanic strategy for CNN/U.S., made the announcement this week.
"There is a real demand for relevant, dynamic, quality programming and CNN Latino is a unique product designed specifically for the growing U.S. Hispanic audience, representing the dual reality of U.S. Latinos today who are multigenerational and proud to be bilingual. The launch of CNN Latino is the first step to bringing this syndicated programming block to local broadcast stations in key Hispanic media markets across the country."
According to the latest census, Hispanics made up more than half the nation's population growth from 2000 to 2010. The Hispanic audience in the United States is at 52 million and counting, and its purchasing power totals more than a trillion dollars, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.
"The U.S. market is so diverse and so large that there is room for two distinctive content options," said Hudson.
There is a company-wide initiative at CNN to produce more content for the U.S. Hispanic audience. CNN Latino is a reflection of the continued investment in that growing market.
"We're adding over 25 staff positions at CNN in Los Angeles, Mexico, Miami and Atlanta," Hudson said, "It's proof of CNN's initiative that believes in this market and is betting on the future."
CNN Latino will launch in Los Angeles with a branded programming block of customized content from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. -- including a locally produced debate show -- directed at the U.S. Hispanic audience. It will air on KBEH-DT channel 63, which is owned by Hero Broadcasting, and can be seen throughout the Los Angeles area, reaching more than 14 million people.
Hero Broadcasting is a privately held television affiliate station group launched in 2007 by industry veteran Bob Behar.
This will be CNN en Español's first attempt in creating an alternative programming block for broadcast Spanish-language TV geared toward the U.S. Hispanic market.
