Disney and Universal will soon have competition on the film-inspired theme park front. Twentieth Century Fox has just unveiled plans to join the thrill ride party.
Named "Twentieth Century Fox World," the brand's first theme park is set to open 2016 as part of Malaysia's Resorts World Genting, a leisure and entertainment complex about an hour outside of Kuala Lumpur.
According to the plans, the 25-acre park will feature more than 25 rides and attractions based on Fox films such as "Ice Age," "Rio," "Alien vs. Predator," "Planet of the Apes" and "Night at the Museum."
Some will be geared towards kids, others for thrill seekers. We can't confirm our suspicions, but it's likely the "Alien vs. Predator" ride will not be ideal for three-year-olds.
"The opening of the first Twentieth Century Fox theme park at Resorts World Genting takes our rich history of storytelling to a whole new level and will provide an exceptional entertainment experience," said Jeffrey Godsick, president of Twentieth Century Fox Consumer Products, in a statement.
"People from around the world will gather here in Malaysia to become part of the story and to experience the magic and adventure of their favorite Fox properties."
Twentieth Century Fox has teamed up with with leisure and hospitality corporation Genting Malaysia to build the park.
Genting Malaysia CEO Tan Sri Lim Kok Thay said they're investing $300 million in Twentieth Century Fox World and expect most visitors to come from Malaysia with international arrivals coming mainly from China and Southeast Asia.
More: Asia's first Legoland opens in Malaysia
Greg Lombardo, vice president of location-based entertainment for Fox Consumer Products, told CNN that other Twentieth Century Fox World theme parks are in the works as well.
"We are creating a unique and exciting destination brand with a true global appeal," he said.
"In the coming months you will be hearing much more."
South East Asia's theme park boom
Twentieth Century Fox's decision to build its first theme park in Malaysia will be a disappointment for U.S. movie fans, though it's not surprising given the success of other big brand parks in the region, fueled by a growing middle class.
"Malaysia has a booming tourism economy and it is a very important growing market for our films and television properties," said Lombard.
"The consumer has a growing appetite for new and engaging entertainment experiences. It was a natural place to for Fox to create our first theme park and marks an important milestone in our global location based entertainment strategy."
Asia's first Legoland opened in Malaysia in 2012. Just a quick drive from Singapore, the $243 million, 30-hectare theme park dedicated to the colorful kids' bricks is made up of 40 rides, shows and attractions.
In October of this year, it added a Legoland Waterpark -- the brand's largest to date. A Legoland hotel, the final phase of the resort, will open in early 2014, said officials.
South of the border, Singapore has its own theme park behemoth, Universal Studios, which opened in 2010 as part of Resorts World Sentosa.
In Thailand, Cartoon Network Amazone water park is expected to open near the resort city of Pattaya in mid 2014. (This is an Amazon Falls Co. Ltd project, developed under license from Turner Broadcasting System Asia Pacific Ltd. Both Cartoon Network and CNN International are operated by Turner Broadcasting System International, a Time Warner company.)
More: Legoland Hotel Malaysia set for 2014 launch
CNN Travel's series often carries sponsorship originating from the countries and regions we profile. However, CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports. Read the policy.
