January 9 , 2015
CNN Student News wraps up the week with reports on frigid temperatures in the U.S., a manhunt in France, and the search for a lost aircraft in the Java Sea. We bring in the subjects of medicine and science with news on the mumps. We cover a bit of history concerning the Gregorian calendar, and we show you what the first day back to work looks like in the U.S. Capitol.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. Police Officers Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos both served in what U.S. city?
2. America's longest-running war involves the nation of Afghanistan. In what year did the conflict begin?
3. In what sea, located between Indonesia and Singapore, are investigators searching for a missing AirAsia passenger plane?
4. In what nation did a fast-moving bushfire scorch 12,500 hectares of land last weekend?
5. The first U.S. Congress began its service in 1789. What number represents the Congress that started its work this week?
6. In what city is the headquarters of Charlie Hebdo, a satire magazine that was attacked by terrorists this week?
7. What is the name of the American silversmith who overlaid the dome of the Massachusetts State House with copper?
8. What viral infection, which affects several hundred Americans each year, is characterized by swelling of the parotid glands in cheeks?
9. What modern-day calendar was named for a pope who reigned in the 1500s?
10. Name the youth football program, the largest in America, whose enrollment dropped by more than 9 percent between 2010 and 2012.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
