(CNN)Sunday's action in football's Premier League failed to match the Boxing Day goal-fest but that didn't mean there was a shortage of drama.
Most of it took place in Manchester, with surging defending champion Manchester City coming unstuck against relegation threatened Burnley.
Cruising with a 2-0 lead after 35 minutes, City relinquished two goals in the second half to only settle for a point. Out went its nine-match winning streak.
The second-half lapse meant City failed to close the gap to one point on leader Chelsea, which had earlier drawn 10-man Southampton 1-1. The margin remains three points.
Manuel Pellegrini's men -- despite missing strikers Sergio Aguero and Edin Dzeko -- netted six goals in their last two matches and when the in-form David Silva and holding midfielder Fernandinho found the back of the net within 33 minutes, it appeared as if a landslide win was on the cards.
But City relaxed and plucky Burnley -- which has improved in the past two months -- pounced.
George Boyd began the comeback in the 47th minute before Ashley Barnes leveled past Joe Hart in the 81st.
"It was a big opportunity to get two more points," Pellegrini was quoted as saying by the BBC. "Everybody would think the game was over but I always say it is never over until the last minute.
"The pitch was very heavy, two games in 48 hours, but we were winning 2-0. Once it was 2-2 we didn't have the legs to score. We only had two shots after that.
"We didn't play well in the second half."
Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho was left bewildered with the officiating at Southampton, feeling his team should have been awarded a penalty when Cesc Fabregas hit the ground under a challenge from Matt Targett early in the second half with the score tied 1-1.
No penalty was given and Fabregas was booked by Anthony Taylor.
In recent weeks, allegations of diving have centered around Chelsea players Gary Cahill, Diego Costa, Willian and Branislav Ivanovic.
"I can't believe that the referee didn't give a penalty," Mourinho told Sky. "I can believe that Southampton defended with everything they have -- good organization, good spirit, good solidarity between the players.
"I can also understand the game that my players played. They tried to win, especially in the second half, when we had complete control. I cannot understand such a big penalty (decision). Or I understand (it could be) a consequence of something that looks like a campaign.
"Out of nothing, (West Ham manager) Sam Allardyce starts speaking about Chelsea players diving, and in another game it is another coach."
Chelsea bossed possession with 60% of the ball but managed one shot on target, Eden Hazard's clinical finish in first-half injury time. Morgan Schneiderlin was sent off for the fourth-place Saints in the 88th minute, tripping Fabregas for a second yellow.
Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal was not happy, either, unimpressed with teams having to play two games in three days. Such, however, is life over the festive period in England.
After United and Tottenham played to a 0-0 draw in London, he described the football as ugly.
"The second half was a struggle," the Dutchman told BT Sport. "You can see the players can't recover in two days. It was an ugly match."
But United would have scored two or three goals in the first half if not for the heroics of Tottenham keeper Hugo Lloris.
Elsewhere, Arsenal rose into a tie on points with Southampton after beating West Ham 2-1 on the road; Stoke heaped more pressure on Alan Irvine by topping West Bromwich Albion 2-0; and draw specialist Sunderland couldn't register a winner against Aston Villa even though it played most of the second half with an extra man. Their match concluded 0-0.
Hull must have thought its troubles were over when it beat Sunderland two days ago, but Steve Bruce's Tigers fell at home 1-0 to last-place Leicester -- which had lost six straight.
Crystal Palace, which sacked Neil Warnock on Saturday, claimed a point after holding QPR to a 0-0 result. QPR -- owned by Air Asia's Tony Fernandes -- held a 5-2-2 record at home while losing all nine of its road games.
In the late kickoff, roller-coaster Newcastle beat Everton 3-2 at home to hand the Toffees a sixth loss in their last eight.
Struggling Liverpool hosts Swansea on Monday.
No more EPL for Torres
Mourinho and Chelsea will no longer be calling upon Fernando Torres.
Chelsea announced late Saturday that the Spanish striker -- an $80 million flop for the Blues -- would be moving to AC Milan permanently following his loan move to the Italian giant.
Torres scored only 20 goals in 110 league appearances for Chelsea in three years, although he won the Champions League during that time. It followed a prolific spell in front of goal with Liverpool.
"Chelsea Football Club thanks Fernando for his service during the past four seasons and wishes him the very best for the future," a Chelsea statement said.
Torres, according to reports, could be headed back to Atletico Madrid in another loan move. The World Cup winner first made a name for himself at the Spanish club.
