(CNN Student News) -- October 28, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Haiti • Dunnellon, Florida
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: What do the Statue of Liberty, a flying car and James Bond have in common? You're gonna find out in the next 10 minutes. My name is Carl Azuz. Welcome to CNN Student News. Let's go ahead and get you today's headlines.
First Up: Midwest Storms
AZUZ: All right, the wind and the rain are slowing down; now, it's time to start cleaning up. That is what is happening all over the United States after this week's tremendous storms. Maybe your town got hit by this severe weather. It is not alone. Check out this map of the United States. If you start over in New York on the East Coast, you go to Wisconsin in the Midwest, then down the Gulf Coast. There was damage across parts of that entire area. Three states -- Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky -- seemed to get the worst of this. And besides the physical damage, hundreds of flights were canceled or delayed over the past couple days. John Roberts wraps up some of the impact of these storms.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's that rare of an event.
JOHN ROBERTS, CNN ANCHOR: Everyone has a storm they'll talk about for the rest of their lives. For many folks from the Dakotas down through the south, this was it, their hurricane, their nor'easter. It even had a name: the "Chi-clone."
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It sounds just like a train, like they say it does. And as fast as it came is as fast as it went.
ROBERTS: A historic storm stretching a staggering 1,200 miles from north to south that had it all: hurricane-force winds, monsoon-like rain, blizzard warnings and tornadoes reported in at least seven states. This surveillance camera kept rolling inside one possible twister in Indiana as the tin roof came off a barn and a boat went airborne. Trees snapped and crushed cars in Kentucky. A rogue gust of wind tipped over a semi and tore off its roof in Michigan. And in Ohio, someone came home to find only half their house was there.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We were at work, got a phone call that you better get out to your house, the roof's gone off of it. And I said, "Yeah, right."
ROBERTS: Now, the dangerous storm is moving on. But thousands of fliers aren't, as grounded airlines struggle to catch up.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We have to leave today.
(END VIDEO)
Haiti Cholera Outbreak
AZUZ: A health official says it could take months to get an outbreak of cholera under control in Haiti. Cholera is a disease that's caused by a bacterial infection. Most people get it from contaminated food or water. This official says Haiti can expect to see cases of cholera for years. Right now, the outbreak is getting worse. More than 4,000 people have confirmed cases of the disease. Nearly 300 others have died so far. Aid workers are trying to slow down the spread of cholera by going into Haitian camps and teaching people about proper water and waste treatment. Many Haitians are living in these camps because their homes were destroyed by the earthquake earlier this year.
What's the Word
JOHN LISK, CNN STUDENT NEWS: What's the Word?
any kind of animal that has a backbone
VERTEBRATE
That's the word!
Endangered Vertebrates
AZUZ: When we talk about vertebrates, it includes mammals, birds, amphibians. There's a new study out called the Red List that says that one-fifth of these animals -- 20 percent! -- are at risk of going extinct. Amphibians like this frog are in the most danger. According to the Red List, over 40 percent of them are closer to extinction than we thought. Scientists say habitat loss is partly to blame here. When land changes --- cutting down trees, for example --animals that lived there might not be able to survive. There is some good news in the report, though. Experts say that the situation could have been worse if it weren't for conservation efforts to save some of these species.
Focus on Bullying
AZUZ: We got more than a thousand comments the last time we blogged about bullying. And you aren't the only ones talking about this issue. A new study out -- just came out this week -- is all about bullying. It says around half of all students admit to being bullied, and the same number admit to being bullies. President Obama's addressing this. His administration is putting out new guidelines that say schools should face penalties if they don't address certain kinds of bullying. Some critics argue that the government is overreacting with these new guidelines. And one expert says parents need to be part of this situation by talking to their kids and looking for signs of bullying.
This Day in History
[ON SCREEN GRAPHIC]
October 28, 1636 -- Harvard University is founded in Cambridge, Massachusetts
October 28, 1919 -- Congress passes the Volstead Act, making it illegal to manufacture or sell alcohol
October 28, 1962 -- An agreement between the U.S. and the Soviet Union ends the Cuban Missile crisis
October 28, 1886 -- The Statue of Liberty, a gift from France to the U.S., is dedicated in New York Harbor
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mr. Sauve's social studies classes at Shell Lake Junior/Senior High in Shell Lake, Wisconsin! What U.S. government agency regulates air travel? Is it the: A) FEC, B) FBI, C) NASA or D) FAA? Start the countdown at three seconds -- GO! That's the job of the FAA, or Federal Aviation Administration. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Flying Car
AZUZ: Part of the FAA's job is to approve new vehicles. The agency decides if they're airworthy. Recently, it signed off on the Maverick. This is a new design that answers the question: When is a plane not a plane? Kate Bolduan took this one out: not for a test flight; for a test drive. Take a look at her report.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We've all dreamed of a flying car. But this man, Florida missionary Steve Saint...
STEVE SAINT, I-TEC: We could probably get you flying this by noon.
BOLDUAN: Really?
SAINT: Really.
BOLDUAN: ...He's making it a reality.
SAINT: Anybody who's ever been in a traffic jam, anybody who's ever been some place where, you know, trying to get out of the parking lot at Disney, has thought about, you know, if I could just fly. And this one will.
BOLDUAN: It's called the Maverick. Last year, Popular Mechanics gave the prototype one of its breathrough awards of the year.
LOGAN WARD, CONTRIBUTING EDITOR, POPULAR MECHANICS: The Maverick is not only a practical flying car, but it's also a beefy car. They put a Subaru engine in this thing, 250 horsepower. It goes 0-60 in 3.9 seconds.
BOLDUAN: By air, it glides at 40 miles per hour. It's the first of its kind to get FAA approval. The Maverick's biggest success: it's intuitive.
SAINT: For driving, you have a steering wheel and you have a brake and accelerator, just like an automatic car.
BOLDUAN: Just like a car.
SAINT: Which you probably have.
BOLDUAN: Yep.
SAINT: Now, when you're going to fly, you see this one little button that says fly?
BOLDUAN: Yes.
SAINT: All you do to fly is you flip this up.
BOLDUAN: What is the biggest selling point of the Maverick versus another type of hybrid machine?
SAINT: There is no other machine that will do what this one will. There is no other car that will fly and go on water and go on snow.
BOLDUAN: Saint and his crew at I-Tec, a non-profit organization, developed the Maverick in part to solve a transportation riddle for frontier areas like the Amazon in Ecuador, where Saint grew up. What do you do when the road ends? Now, he says, the practical applications of their machine reach far beyond jungle survival.
SAINT: You can fly over, find somebody who needs to be rescued, and you can land and then drive to them. So, that would be another one. Border patrol, pipeline monitoring, ranching and extreme sports. There's just all kinds of uses. I'm sure we'll be surprised by the uses that people put this to.
BOLDUAN: The next step: commercial production. For $80,000, a flying car could be coming soon to a garage near you. Kate Bolduan, CNN, Dunnellon, Florida.
(END VIDEO)
Facebook Chat Promo
AZUZ: I want one. All right, back by semi-popular demand: a conversation with moi! I will be live on Facebook.com/cnnstudentnews, and I will be answering your questions! The date: Monday night, November 1st, 6:30 p.m. Eastern time. If there's something you've always wanted to know about the show, ask me Monday night. I will do my best to respond to your wall post! That address again: Facebook.com/cnnstudentnews.
Before We Go
AZUZ: And finally today, the name is Bond. James Bond. All right, we can't all be British super spies. But we can drive his car. This is the Aston Martin that was used in two James Bond movies. What's cool about this is that some of the gadgets from the films actually work on the car. It's got a bullet shield; it's got a revolving license plate, an ejection seat. Okay, not really the ejection seat; that doesn't actually work. But the car is going up for auction this week. Experts think it could pull in -- get this -- 5 million dollars.
Goodbye
AZUZ: Seems a bit high, but I guess you can't put a price on bonding with 007. I spy another edition of CNN Student News coming your way tomorrow. We'll look forward to seeing you then. I'm Carl Azuz.
