English club Liverpool qualified for the knockout stages of Europe's second-tier Europa League on Thursday along with Paris St. Germain, Besiktas and Dynamo Kiev.
Liverpool continued their minor revival since the arrival of new American owners, but allowed second-placed Steaua Bucharest to come from behind and earn a 1-1 draw.
Serbia international Milan Jovanovic headed in a 19th-minute cross from Dutch winger Ryan Babel, but Spanish goalkeeper Jose Reina allowed the home side to level with half an hour to play as he failed to keep out a header by Eder Bonfim.
That kept Roy Hodgson's team three points clear ahead of the final Group K match at home to Utrecht on December 15.
The Dutch club are five points behind their upcoming opponents following a 3-3 draw at home to Napoli -- who have also drawn four of their five matches.
Balotelli double helps Manchester City qualify
Edinson Cavani scored a hat-trick to help the Italian club come from 3-1 down and end their hosts' hopes of progressing, while the Serie A outfit can through to the last 32 by winning at home to the Romanians next month.
Paris St. Germain qualified with a 4-2 victory over Sevilla that lifted the French side two points clear of the second-placed Spaniards in Group J.
Mathieu Bodmer and Guillaume Hoarau scored from two early corners by Nene before the Brazilian midfielder made it 3-0, then Mali striker Fredi Kanoute netted a double for the visitors.
Hoarau's second goal just after halftime left Sevilla needing a point from their final game at home to Borussia Dortmund to progress.
The Germans kept their hopes alive with a 3-0 win at home to pointless Ukrainian side Karpaty Lviv.
In Group L, Turkish side Besiktas went through with a 2-1 win at Bulgaria's CSKA Sofia.
Portugal's Porto, who had already qualified, ensured top spot with a 3-1 win at Rapid Vienna, as Colombian striker Falcao scored a hat-trick to move top of the goal charts with seven.
Russian club CSKA confirmed top spot in Group F, winning 5-1 at home to bottom Swiss club Lausanne for a fifth straight win.
Czech side Sparta Prague will go through in second after drawing 2-2 at Palermo, with the Italian side having two players sent off.
In Group D, Spanish side Villarreal moved into top spot with a 3-0 win at home to Dinamo Zagreb, with Italian striker Giuseppe Rossi scoring twice including a first-half opener from the penalty spot.
The Croatians had Igor Biscan sent off in the 87th minute for handball, but Marcos Senna missed the subsequent spot-kick.
Previous leaders PAOK Salonika are a point behind Villarreal, and two above next month's opponents Zagreb, following a 1-1 draw with Club Bruges.
The Greeks led through Adelino Vieirinha's 25th-minute effort, but gave the bottom-placed Belgians a point through Stefan Scepovic's late equalizer.
In Group E, Ukraine's Dynamo Kiev booked a last-32 berth with a 4-1 win at previously unbeaten BATE Borisov of Belarus, leaving both teams on 10 points.
Dutch side AZ Alkmaar and FC Sheriff were eliminated after a 1-1 draw in Moldova left both teams with four points.
