Former world No. 1s Maria Sharapova and Caroline Wozniacki lit up the court at the Miami Masters on Thursday, but the lights went out on Agnieszka Radwanska and Marion Bartoli in the other women's semifinal.
On an eventful day at the U.S. hard-court event, four-time grand slam winner Sharapova and the in-form fifth seed Radwanska both scored impressive victories to set up a final showdown on Saturday.
Second seed Sharapova let a 4-1 lead slip in the opening set of her afternoon match with Danish No. 4 Wozniacki, but battled back to secure a 4-6 6-2 6-4 win in two hours and 34 minutes.
The Russian, a three-time runner up in Key Biscayne, said she almost paid the price for not keeping to her strengths.
"I'm a very aggressive player," the 2012 Australian Open finalist told the WTA Tour's website. "I go for my shots. I don't hesitate.
"In the first set I stopped doing that a little bit, and it gave her confidence to come back and win that first set, but I'm pleased I got it back right away and managed to win today."
Wozniacki, who lost top spot in the world rankings after Victoria Azarenka won January's Melbourne grand slam, was philosophical in defeat.
"I tried to do my best, and it just wasn't enough today," said the 21-year-old, who beat Serena Williams in the last 16. "I was very close. But this is tennis. One time you win, one time you lose."
Radwanska extended her winning career record against French seventh seed Bartoli to seven matches with a 6-4 6-2 win in a clash interrupted several times by the lights going out.
The Pole who was victorious in Dubai earlier this month, registered her 25th win this season, having ended world No. 1 Azarenka's 26-match winning streak in the quarterfinals.
"You're really focused on the match and really want to finish in two sets, then suddenly the lights go off," the 23-year-old said.
"It was one of the weirdest matches I've ever played. I was just in the locker room staying focused, trying to stay warm and ready to go."
Bartoli, the 2007 Wimbledon runner-up, was hampered by a hip injury during the match, but still managed to defiantly complete the match.
"I know how it is to be playing with injury and playing with pain, but it's always weird when someone else is struggling with it," Radwanska said. "Today she was still playing and moving very well, though. So I really had to do my 100% in the end."
In the men's draw, world No. 1 Novak Djokovic survived a late rally from Spanish fifth seed David Ferrer to set up a Friday semifinal with Argentine No. 21 Juan Monaco.
Having breezed through the opening set, five-time grand slam winner and defending Miami champion Djokovic was made to sweat in the second before sealing a 6-2 7-6 (7-1) success.
"He's like a wall on the court," the 24-year-old told the tournament's official website. "Gets a lot of balls back. He always makes you play an extra shot.
"I needed to play well and aggressive and step into the court from the first point. That's what I did."
Monaco celebrated his 28th birthday with a comprehensive 6-1 6-3 defeat of U.S. No. 1 and eighth seed Mardy Fish.
Three-time Miami runner-up Rafael Nadal will play British fourth seed Andy Murray in Friday's opening semifinal.
