Rory McIlroy's bid to clinch the European Tour money list has been hit by bad weather in Singapore -- and the world's No. 1 golfer has revealed that his tennis star girlfriend is not enjoying the experience.
Caroline Wozniacki traveled to Asia to be by his side after her season ended last weekend at a tournament final in Bulgaria, but the couple -- dubbed "Wozilroy" -- has had to put up with rain and early-morning starts.
"Nearly 12 hours at the golf course already today! @CaroWozniacki really enjoying her holiday this week... Not!!," he wrote on Twitter, where he posted a less than flattering picture of the Dane slumped asleep on a desk.
McIlroy, unable to complete his first round on Thursday, came back early to post a one-under-par 70 and was then level after 12 holes when the second round of the $6 million event was again halted.
"Now I remember why golf isn't my sport! Waking up at 5.15 isn't really my thing lol... #notamorningperson," Wozniacki posted on Twitter.
McIlroy could add to his PGA Tour money list title by winning in Singapore, where officials face the prospect of cutting the tournament to 54 holes for the second year in a row if the disruptions continue.
However, he is battling illness which may mean he has to wait until next week's Hong Kong Open title defense or the season-ending World Tour Championship in Dubai before he can emulate Luke Donald's feat last year.
"I'm struggling a bit and not feeling 100%," the 23-year-old told reporters. "Maybe it's a good thing that the humidity is so high because I might be able to sweat it out."
This time last year McIlroy was suffering with an illness suspected to be Dengue Fever, and he ended up finishing second in the Race To Dubai standings behind Donald.
England's world No. 63 Simon Dyson shared the lead with 631-ranked Chapchai Nirat of Thailand when Friday's play was finally stopped, with both on six under par.
Half the field had not played since Thursday, including veteran American Phil Mickelson and fellow major winner Padraig Harrington -- who were both down the field after the opening round.
