A businessman accused of helping facilitate the November 2008 terrorist attacks that killed as many as 164 people in Mumbai, India, goes on trial in a federal courtroom in Chicago on Monday.
Prosecutors accuse Tahawwur Hussain Rana of allowing his office, First World Immigration Services, to be used a front for a co-conspirator traveling abroad to scout possible locations for the terrorist attacks, according to court records.
Rana is also accused of taking part in a plot to bomb the offices of a Danish newspaper that had published irreverent cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed and angered Muslims across the world.
Rana, who denies the allegations, is listed among seven co-defendants in the indictment, five of whom are unnamed and considered to be at large. Prosecutors allege the co-defendants are members of the terrorist group, Lashkar-e Tayyiba, or "Army of the Pure."
David Coleman Headley, the only other defendant named in the suit, pleaded guilty to terrorism charges last year and is expected to testify against Rana.
If convicted, Rana could be sentenced to life in prison.
According to the indictment, Rana helped Headley obtain a fake visa to travel to India as well as approve the opening of a First World office in Mumbai. Headley, who is Pakistani-American, "misrepresented his birth name, (his) father's true name, and the purpose for his travel," on the visa, the indictment states.
Between September 2006 and July 2008, Headley made repeated trips to Mumbai where he made video recordings of potential terrorist sites, the indictment states. In July 2008, according to the indictment, Rana allegedly passed messages from another plotter to Headley.
On November 26, 2008, a group of 10 attackers armed with guns, grenades and other explosive devices launched attacks on various targets in Mumbai, including two hotels, a train station and a Jewish center. Those killed in the attacks included six U.S. citizens, the indictment states.
After the Mumbai attacks, according to prosecutors, Headley again obtained Rana's permission to use his company's name as a cover to conduct surveillance on a Danish newspaper that had publish the offensive cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.
Those attacks were never carried out.
Journalist Ben Smith contributed to this report.
