Treasure hunter Christian Hanisch told CNN Thursday that the hunt for Nazi Gold and possibly the legendary Amber Room will end Friday after the two men leading the expedition had a disagreement.
Treasure hunters began drilling again Tuesday to try to locate the lost Nazi gold.
Heinz-Peter Haustein, the other treasure hunter, told Germany's Bild newspaper that geophysicists will now re-evaluate the situation and that digging may resume in two weeks. CNN has so far not been able to reach Haustein for confirmation.
"Haustein told me to get out of here immediately," an angry Hanisch told CNN in a telephone interview.
He said Haustein, who is also the mayor of the village Deutschneudorf, where the digging is taking place, told him he wanted to make the expedition more credible by calling in the scientists.  See photos from hunt for lost Nazi gold »
"It can't get any more credible than now," said Hanisch, whose measurements had allegedly pinpointed the treasure.
He said the drilling taking place at the site never focused on the exact coordinates he had provided. "They just always dug around there, but never at the exact location where I wanted them to dig," he said.
The two treasure hunters had said geological surveying had revealed an underground cave holding large amounts of precious metal. They said it could be a holding area dug by the Nazis who used it to stash valuables in World War II.
Haustein said he also believes the legendary Amber Room, an interior made of gold and amber that the Nazis had looted from a palace in St. Petersburg,  after Adolf Hitler's forces invaded the Soviet Union in 1941, was also hidden somewhere in the mountains around Deutschneudorf -- and that finding a stash of gold could give clues as to the whereabouts of the Amber Room.
Now Hanisch says he never believed in the Amber Room theory. "I never talked about finding the Amber Room anywhere here, that was all Haustein's idea," he said.
Hanisch said that his father was one of the soldiers who helped transport gold and other valuables to the area around Deutschneudorf near the end of the Second World War and that when he died he left behind coordinates allegedly leading to a cave holding gold and other valuables.
Haustein has been paying for the excavation.  Watch hunt for Nazi gold at German mountain »
Earlier this week, Haustein said digging at the site was stopped more than a week ago amid safety concerns, as German authorities and the treasure hunters feared that the shaft dug so far might collapse, and that the alleged cave may be rigged with explosives or poisonous booby traps.
Deutschneudorf is in Germany's Ore Mountains, and the mountain where the treasure hunters were looking was a copper mine until the 19th century. Though the mine was shut down in 1882, geologists have found evidence that soldiers from Hitler's Wehrmacht -- the German armed forces -- had been there: machine guns, parts of uniforms and explosives that are on display at the town's museum. E-mail to a friend
