The planet's most in-form golfer won't be lining up at Dove Mountain this month, but Tiger Woods has committed to playing the first of the season's World Golf Championship events.
Sunday's Pebble Beach winner Brandt Snedeker has suffered an untimely injury blow and has been ruled out of the $8.5 million Accenture World Match Play Championship in Arizona due to rib soreness.
The new world No. 4 has been replaced in the elite 64-man field by 66th-ranked Swede Fredrik Jacobson for the February 20-24 tournament.
Snedeker, who went on holiday after playing his fifth tournament this year, has been advised to rest by his doctor but hopes to return for next month's WGC-Cadillac Championship at Doral.
He has had finishes of 3-23-2-2-1 this season, having scooped the $10 million FedEx Cup jackpot after winning last September's Tour Championship in his final top-level PGA Tour outing of 2012.
World No. 2 Woods has committed to both WGC events plus the Honda Classic, starting February 28, where he tied for second last year behind world No. 1 Rory McIlroy.
"The Honda Classic is a really good tournament, and it does a lot for the community," said Woods, who has already won one title this year, finishing ahead of Snedeker at Torrey Pines last month.
"I like the golf course, and I came pretty close last year. It's part of a busy stretch for me, and I want to continue playing well."
His three-tournament run comes in the lead-up to the Masters, where the former world No. 1 will seek to win his 15th major title but first since 2008.
Jacobson tied for seventh at Pebble Beach, just his second start since October due to back problems.
He lost in the first round of the Match Play last year, his first appearance since 2005 when it was still held in Carlsbad, California.
"I'm excited to come back," the 38-year-old said. "I was there a few years before last year, and any of these tournaments, the WGCs, the majors -- if you're on the bubble for them, you want to get some kind of rhythm where you get to play a lot of them and get accustomed to the courses."
Phil Mickelson, who finished 60th in his Pebble Beach title defense the week after winning in Phoenix, will not be in the field at Dove Mountain.
He withdrew to spend time with his family, and will be replaced by 65th-ranked Irishman Shane Lowry.
