Formula One world championship leader Mark Webber believes it is too early to start thinking about winning the title despite having a 14-point lead with only three races left.
The main rivals to the Red Bull driver are his teammate Sebastian Vettel and Ferrari's Fernando Alonso, who are tied for second in the standings.
McLaren pair Lewis Hamilton and reigning champion Jenson Button are also still in contention for the crown.
Webber knows he will become champion if he wins one of the season's remaining races and scores podium finishes in the other two, with trips to Brazil and Abu Dhabi finishing off this year's calendar.
The Australian driver told the official F1 website: "It's ridiculous to start calculating things because a lot of things can happen.
"I win the next two races, it's all over anyway in terms of doing well. But this is another event, another race here and (I must) keep doing what I'm doing."
"The (points) gap has been edging away, the right way in the last few races. I need to try to do that. Then just keep doing our best, that's the most important thing. I'm doing my best and then hopefully the result will take care of itself."
Alonso has made a big impression in his first season with Ferrari and will take away the positives even if he cannot land the title for the third time.
"In terms of happiness, in terms of motivation, driving, the team itself, it's the best one. Obviously it will be nice to become champion this year but even if we cannot do it, I will anyway have great, great memories of 2010."
Button and 2008 champion Hamilton know they have to make up ground fast at the Korea International Circuit this weekend.
Button, who is fifth in the rankings, is aware of how difficult it will be for him to close the 31-point gap between himself and Webber, but he is excited to still be involved in the fight for the sport's top prize.
"It is good to still be involved in the championship hunt with three races to go," said Button. "Obviously it's most difficult for me as I am 31 points behind. But there is always a possibility.
"We are still very hopeful and I am looking forward to the next three races. I am sure it is going to be pretty mixed up as we go through these next three races. That will make an exciting fight for the end of the season."
His fellow Briton Hamilton, who at present finds himself in fourth place, was also in bullish mood, despite trailing the Red Bulls and Ferrari in recent races.
"I think it's possible, anything's possible.
"I think you can tell that us, as a team, and the Ferraris as well, are pushing very hard because I don't think the gap is that big, so it's not impossible. I'm happy where I am, we're still in the fight for the championship, so it's not a bad position to be in."
With doubts being cast over Korea's ability to host the event, Vettel, who won the last round in Singapore, is pleased with what he has seen so far.
"I think the main things have been covered. We will see how grippy it will be, but given the fact there was a lot of concern and we were even talking about not racing here, lately they did a very good job."
