The San Francisco Giants won their first World Series title since 1954 on Monday, after the California-based team beat the Texas Rangers 3-1 away at the Arlington Ballpark to secure a 4-1 victory in Major League baseball's best-of-seven-game contest.
After narrowly missing out in the "Fall Classic" in 1962, 1989 and 2002, the result marked the Giants' sixth overall World Series win, but only their first since the franchise moved from New York to the west coast city in 1958.
The game was the end of an incredible season for the Giants -- who qualified for the final by beating the Atlanta Braves and defending National League Champions the Philadelphia Phillies -- after they clinched a play-off place on the last day of the six-month regular season.
But it was a disappointing night for the Rangers, who were appearing in the World Series final for the first time in the team's 50-year history.
Is the Giants' triumph bad for baseball?
Veteran shortstop Edgar Renteria -- who produced the winning hit in the final game of the 1997 series for the Florida Marlins -- sealed the win for the Giants with a three-run homer in the seventh innings, and the 35-year-old Colombian was subsequently named the series' Most Valuable Player.
"I didn't forget that we were playing a great offensive team like Texas," Renteria told the Giants' official website. "That's why I told my teammates, 'Keep playing,' because we know they can tie the game right away."
But the Texas-based team were unable to catch the eventual winners, and American starting pitcher Tim Linecum was also invaluable for the Giants, striking out 10 and scattering three hits over eight innings, allowing just one home run to Rangers player Nelson Cruz -- his side's only score.
"I felt pretty collected," Linecum said. "From the first inning on, my adrenaline kind of just dissipated and I was able to calm down. I was very poised out there."
The Rangers had hoped for more on their World Series debut, but the team who had not won a play-off game until three weeks ago admitted they were beaten by better players.
"Not much worked for us this series. We won one game," Ian Kinsler of the Rangers told his side's official website. "They pitched better than us. They did everything better than us."
