Padraig Harrington has accepted his punishment after being disqualified from the Abu Dhabi Championship for an incident during Thursday's opening round of the European Tour golf event.
Television replays showed that the three-time major winner inadvertently moved his ball with his hand on the green at the seventh hole, but did not sign for the required two-stroke penalty.
The Irishman went on to card a seven-under-par 65 which left him one shot off the lead, but he did not tee off for Friday's second round after officials noticed his infringement.
"I was aware I hit the ball picking up my coin. I looked down at the time and was pretty sure it had just oscillated and had not moved, so I continued on," the world No. 26 told the European Tour website.
"In slow motion it's pretty clear the ball has moved three dimples forward and it's come back maybe a dimple and a half. At the end of the day that's good enough, but I wouldn't have done anything differently yesterday -- there was nothing I could do about it at that moment in time."
The European Tour's senior referee Andy McFee explained that Harrington was disqualified after signing for an incorrect score.
"It's a minute movement, but it's a movement and he never replaced it, so he should have included a two-stroke penalty. Because he signed for a score lower than actually taken, the penalty is disqualification," McFee said.
Harrington, who has not won on the European Tour since his second British Open victory and subsequent U.S. PGA Championship triumph in 2008, said he had no quarrels with the officials.
"The one thing all golfers love about their sport is the fact that we can stand up and say, 'We have the best rules, we are the fairest, we call them on ourselves.'
"I think in this situation and other situations like that, with the new technology, maybe going forward, that the penalties can be changed. But the actual rulings have to stay where they are."
Meanwhile, defending champion Martin Kaymer claimed a three-shot lead on Friday after shooting 65 to move up to 12-under 132 at the halfway stage.
The 2010 Race To Dubai winner -- also the 2008 victor in Abu Dhabi -- carded a flawless seven-birdie second round, five of them coming in his first seven holes.
The German, playing his first tournament of 2011, will replace Tiger Woods as world No. 2 if he finishes in the top seven.
First-round leader Charl Schwartzel was second after a 71, as the South African dropped three shots in five holes in the middle of his front nine and made two more bogeys after the turn before finishing with a birdie.
In-form Schwartzel holds early Abu Dhabi lead
That left last weekend's Joburg Open winner a shot clear of U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell, who countered three bogeys with five birdies in his 70.
World No. 12 Rory McIlroy was tied for seventh on 138 after a 67, while former European Ryder Cup captain Colin Montgomerie was another shot back in a group of eight after a 69.
World No. 4 Phil Mickelson (70) was tied for 25th on 141 along with South Africa's two-time major winner Retief Goosen (71).
World No. 8 Paul Casey, the winner here in 2007 and 2009, was tied for 50th after a 70, while top-ranked fellow Englishman Lee Westwood may also scrape into the weekend rounds after a 75 left him tied for 62nd on 144 -- a shot inside the projected cut.
Westwood suffered two double-bogeys on his front nine, but bounced back with birdies at two of his last three holes.
Last year's runner-up Ian Poulter and British Open Louis Oosthuizen were both set to miss out on 145.
Meanwhile, Venezuelan rookie Jhonattan Vegas claimed a share of the lead at the PGA Tour's Bob Hope Classic after shooting five-under 67 in California on Thursday.
The 26-year-old carded eight birdies but closed with his third bogey at the PGA West's Nicklaus Course in La Quinta.
The first man from his country to play on the main U.S. circuit, he had been second overnight following his 64 at the Palmer Course.
American Boo Weekley carded 66 at the Nicklaus Course to join him on 13-under 131, with fellow Americans Charles Howell (66) and Chris Crouch (65) tied for third another shot back.
The five-round charity event is played over four courses with a mix of professional and amateur players.
