(CNN)  -- Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola is warning his side against complacency ahead of their Champions League return against arch-rivals Real Madrid Tuesday.
Guardiola has used their shock 2-1 league defeat to Real Sociedad Saturday as extra motivation although Real earlier lost 3-2 to Real Zaragoza in a double upset.
"This was a lesson for us showing that nothing has been done yet," Guardiola told gathered reporters.
"Madrid are a very good team and they have nothing to lose so we have to keep our heads. We are going to have some tough moments in the game and we will need the support of our fans."
Barcelona won a bad-tempered first leg in the Bernabeu 2-0 last week to put themselves firmly in command of the semifinal tie.
Barcelona had substitute goalkeeper Jose Pinto sent off after a halftime fracas and after the break Real suffered a body blow when key defender Pepe was sent off and coach Jose Mourinho dismissed to the stands for his protests.
The controversy continued after the game with Mourinho lashing out at his post-match press conference as he implied that the officials were favoring Barcelona.
Blog: No way Jose, you've gone too far this time
Real will be without the suspended Sergio Ramos and Pepe for the next version of 'El Clasico' in the Nou Camp, while German midfield star Sami Khedira is injured.
But their players remain convinced they can overturn the deficit in the second leg.
"We feel that we can do it and also in the league," Brazil star Kaka told AFP.
"Until it is mathematically impossible we are not going to give anything up, although we cannot afford to make mistakes like we did against Zaragoza," he added.
Argentina teammate Gonzalo Higuain acknowledged that the defeat to Zaragoza, which leaves them eight points adrift of Barca, had all but ended their title chances.
"The league is almost over but we need to concentrate on the Champions League and we have a side which can reach the final," he said.
For Barcelona, star midfielder Andres Iniesta and central defender Carles Puyol are battling to be fit in time.
