Inter Milan's faultless record under new coach Leonardo came to an abrupt halt on Sunday as the reigning Serie A champions lost 3-1 to Udinese.
Inter were on course for their sixth straight win since the Brazilian took over from Rafa Benitez in December when Dejan Stankovic gave them the lead after a quarter of an hour.
But Udinese struck back almost immediately with goals from Cristian Zapata after 20 minutes and Antonio Di Natale five minutes later.
Maurizio Domizzi added the home side's third in the 69th minute leaving Inter too much to do in the final 20 minutes of the match.
The result means Udinese stay in eighth place, but are now only one point behind Palermo. Inter remain in fifth with 35 points.
Rivals AC Milan moved four points clear at the top of the league as they beat Cesena 2-0 at the San Siro.
An own goal by Cesena defender Pellegrino at the end of the first half gave Milan the lead.
The Rossoneri had several chances to wrap up the match in the second half with Robinho going close twice, but it was left to the ever dependable Ibrahimovic to make sure of the points as he slotted home from a tight angle in injury time.
Cesena ninth away defeat of the season means they remain in 18th place with 19 points.
Napoli moved up to second behind leaders Milan after a 2-0 win at Bari.
Argentina's Ezequiel Lavezzi put Napoli ahead after 38 minutes with a well-taken free-kick.
Uruguayan striker Edinson Cavani made sure of three points shortly before the end scoring his 14th goal of the season.
Lazio failed to make up any ground on Milan after slumping to a shock 3-1 defeat at Bologna.
Lazio took the lead in the fifth minute thanks to Sergio Floccari, but Gaston Ramirez leveled the scores half an hour later.
Three minutes later the home side were ahead as striker Marco Di Vaio carved through the Lazio defense before finishing neatly.
Di Vaio scored his 13th goal of the season and his team's third in injury time at the end of the match.
Juventus stay in sixth place, now on the same points as Inter, after a 0-0 draw at Sampdoria.
There were no goals between Chievo and Genoa either as both teams looked to escape the bottom half of the table.
There was also stalemate in the match between Fiorentina and Lecce which finished 1-1. David Di Michele opened the scoring for Lecce after 29 minutes only for Alberto Gilardino to cancel it our with a header in the 56th minute.
