Michael Jackson's oldest son blasted his famous aunts and uncles on Twitter on Thursday for taking his grandmother away and keeping her out of touch for 10 days.
"I'm really angry and hurt," Prince Jackson tweeted.
His tweets came just hours after Katherine Jackson returned to the Calabasas, California, home where she has been raising Prince, 15; Paris, 14; and Prince Michael II, 10, who's also known as Blanket.
A judge suspended Katherine Jackson as their guardian Wednesday because of her absence, which her own lawyers suggested might have been against her will. TJ Jackson, the 34-year-old son of Tito Jackson, was named temporary guardian.
"Although I am happy my grandma was returned, after speaking with her I realized how misguided and how badly she was lied to," Prince Jackson tweeted.
Jackson family drama an unwanted reality show
Janet, Jermaine, Randy and Rebbie Jackson teamed up to take their 82-year-old mother to a spa near Tucson, Arizona, on July 15, later saying it was under a doctor's orders.
The three children, who have been in their grandmother's custody since their father's death three years ago, became upset after several days of not hearing from her. Critical tweets have flowed from sister Paris for days, but her older and usually less outspoken brother is now being heard.
"I have been holding off on backing up my sister and her tweets avidly because I was waiting for the time to reveal my side," Prince Jackson tweeted.
His tweets included a photo of his cell phone screen, which he said showed "a group chat I had started to several family members. This group text message I had started was replied to but they didn't know that I could see the responses. For this whole time, they denied us contact to our grandmother."
The image shows Prince texting to aunts Rebbie and Janet Jackson:
"This is enough so I am texting you for the simple fact that WE DEMAND TO SPEAK TO MY GRANDMA NOW!!!"
The reply, apparently from Janet Jackson, was: "Don't let them pls."
The text exchange came three hours after Janet Jackson was seen on security camera video apparently attempting to take Paris Jackson's cell phone away in the driveway of Katherine Jackson's home. Janet Jackson's representative did not immediately reply to CNN's request for comment.
The Twitter posting referred to lessons taught to him by his father.
"As long as I can remember my dad had repeatedly warned me of certain people and their ways," he tweeted.
The tweet concluded with this: "If you continue with your lies I will continue with the truth." It was signed "Michael Jackson Jr."
The tweets mysteriously disappeared several hours later, replaced with a message disavowing them.
By mid-afternoon, when the children done with summer school, Paris posted tweets explaining:
"the thing my brother tweeted last night was the last true thing he tweeted.. he was hacked saying what we tweeted was false..
prince will repost the image of the text
'if you continue with your lives , i will continue with the truth' prince wanted me to tell you guys that okay . please know its us tweeting"
Judge suspends Katherine Jackson as guardian
Before Katherine Jackson began the long drive back to California on Wednesday, she appeared on camera and read a statement to ABC News.
As her children Rebbie, Jermaine and Janet stood behind her, she read from a yellow notepad:
"I am devastated that while I've been away ... my grandchildren have been taken away from me, and I'm coming home to see about that," Jackson said. The network was not allowed to ask her any questions.
At a hearing Wednesday, Katherine Jackson's attorney, Sandra Ribera, told Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Mitchell Beckloff that there was reason to believe Jackson had been held against her will.
Beckloff suspended her as the children's custodian because she may be "prevented from acting as a guardian because of the acts of third parties."
Another one of her lawyers, Perry Sanders, said he would meet with his client Thursday before filing a petition to restore her as custodian. Katherine Jackson was unaware of the controversy swirling around her family for the past week, he said.
In her statement, Katherine Jackson disputed the judge's findings.
"I am here today to let everybody know that I am fine and I am here with my children, and my children would never do a thing to me like that, holding me against my will. It's very stupid for people to think that," she said.
The judge also ordered that singer Diana Ross, whom Michael Jackson named as backup guardian in his will, and Debbie Rowe, the biological mother of the two oldest children, be given notice of the order.
Jackson family feud caught on tape
CNN's Ed Payne and Kareen Wynter contributed to this report.
