(CNN Student News) -- October 18, 2013
As the week comes to a close, CNN Student News reports on U.S. government activity following Wednesday night's deal in Washington. We also discuss a report on the widespread impact of modern-day slavery. Plus, we examine what could be a giant chunk of meteorite in Russia, and we hear why Spain is considering a time zone switch.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How can news organizations effectively convey images of modern-day slavery? What effects might these images have on viewers?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What is the name of the U.S. government's "limit" on borrowing?
2. What island nation experienced a 7.1-magnitude earthquake on Tuesday morning?
3. What type of organism is methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA): bacteria, virus, or fungus?
4. In what country would you find the Swat Valley, where education activist Malala Yousafzai once lived?
5. Ruminating, supping and gormandizing are all synonyms for what action: walking, eating, or drinking?
6. What is the name of the annual Muslim pilgrimage to Mecca, Saudi Arabia?
7. Former Army Capt. William Swenson received what medal, the U.S. military's highest award for bravery?
8. In what country did divers recover what could be a meteorite that weighs more than 1,200 pounds?
9. What U.S. holiday occurs on the second Monday in October and is also celebrated as Dia de la Raza?
10. On what peninsula would you find Spain?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Washington, D.C.
Europe
Russia; Spain
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
