Police are no longer looking for a woman in connection with a fatal shooting and crash that left three people dead on the Las Vegas Strip.
"Yenesis Alfonso, also known as Tineesha Howard, is no longer considered to be a missing person and is no longer a person of interest" in the homicide investigation, Las Vegas police said in a statement late Wednesday.
The 22-year-old was never named as a suspect, but detectives wanted to talk to her in connection with the case. The police statement says the investigation is ongoing.
Police didn't say why she was no longer considered a person of interest.
Authorities had previously identified Ammar Asim Faruq Harris, 26, as a suspect in the shooting. He is at large, though a black Range Rover police say he was driving during the early-morning shooting has been impounded.
Police consider Harris to be armed and dangerous, and say he has an extensive criminal history, CNN affiliate KLAS reported. He has several tattoos, including a small heart -shaped one below his right eye and a large one of an owl that covers his neck and part of his chest.
A woman who said she is Howard's mother told CNN that her daughter and Harris have dated for about a year.
Miladys Garcia said she recognized Harris from an image that police issued, but that she knew him by a different name.
In the shooting and crash, Kenneth Cherry, an aspiring rapper known as Kenny Clutch, was driving his Maserati around 4:20 a.m. Thursday when someone in a Range Rover shot at his car as it headed north on Las Vegas Boulevard. Cherry, who was shot in the chest and arm, later died at a hospital.
The Maserati continued into the intersection with Flamingo Road and collided with a taxi, which caught fire, killing cab driver Michael Boldon, CNN affiliate KVVU said.
A passenger in the taxi -- identified by the Clark County coroner's office as Sandra Sutton-Wasmund, 48, of Maple Valley, Washington -- also died. All the deaths have been ruled homicides, according to the coroner's office.
The fire closed a block and a half of the Strip near some of its biggest draws: Caesars Palace, the Bellagio, Bally's and the Flamingo. Police collected surveillance video from the casinos.
CNN's Tina Burnside and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
