She likes Target, the Food Network and sun-dried tomatoes. She loves taking pictures of her dog Beast, and admits to checking her phone "every five seconds."
Priscilla Chan vaulted into the spotlight on Saturday when it was revealed she had married longtime boyfriend Mark Zuckerberg -- billionaire and Facebook founder. The wedding, according to media reports, came within days of Chan's graduation from medical school at the University of California, San Francisco.
The two met more than nine years ago while both were studying at Harvard. In a 2005 Harvard Crimson story about Zuckerberg leaving the university, he is quoted as asking Chan, identified as a "passing friend," "Hey, Priscilla, do you want a job at the Facebook?"
"I'd love a job at Facebook," she responds while "offering him a Twizzler."
But Chan, who graduated from Harvard as a biology major in 2007, never worked for Facebook.
Instead, the Braintree, Massachusetts, native worked as a fourth- and fifth-grade science teacher at The Harker School in San Jose, California, following her graduation. On Facebook, she described her job as "hanging out with the little ones and trying to explain how the world works."
She left the school in June 2008 and entered medical school, according to Facebook. "Learning to be a doctor," she noted on her page.
On the UCSF web site, Chan is quoted along with other students on the school. "I was attracted by the faculty's honesty and warmth and the curriculum's inter-disciplinary approach," she said. "San Francisco's quirkiness and diversity sealed the deal."
Chan graduated from Harvard in 2007. A picture posted on another of her Facebook pages shows her in a cap and gown next to Zuckerberg, who was wearing his trademark hoodie.
In another picture from 2007, Chan writes she is with Zuckerberg at the White House Correspondents' Dinner, noting, "My date was wearing shoes!"
In March 2011, the couple adopted Beast -- and, of course, set up a Facebook page for him.
"I am a Puli, which is a type of Hungarian sheepdog," according to Beast's page. "I live in Palo Alto with Mark and Cilla. I like cuddling and herding things."
On his page, Beast is shown lying on Chan's computer keyboard as she looks at the screen; peering into the fridge for a snack; and describing his "favorite thing in the world ... pooping on Mark's white rug."
Beast is also shown on Chan's page, which had been updated as of Sunday to show her married to Zuckerberg.
However, her pages also show a keen sense of humor. She writes that she "loves cooking and soft things" and enjoys diet  A&W. "I am a simple creature," she writes.
One with the power to help change the world: Zuckerberg told ABC News this month that dinner table conversations with Chan helped him formulate an organ-donation initiative on Facebook.
"She's going to be a pediatrician, so our dinner conversations are often about Facebook and the kids that she's meeting," he said. Chan told him, he added, of patients "getting sicker as they don't have the organ that they need."
According to her Facebook page, Chan speaks English, Spanish and Cantonese. Zuckerberg told ABC that Chan inspired him to try to learn Mandarin Chinese in one year. The venture wasn't very successful, he said, but he picked up enough to talk with Chan's elderly grandmother.
