(CNN)Did former New England Patriot Aaron Hernandez kill Odin Lloyd, a man who was dating the sister of Hernandez's fiancee and might have become his future brother-in-law?
Hernandez has pleaded not guilty to murder and two weapons charges, setting the stage for his trial in Fall River, Massachusetts, that began in January.
He's accused of orchestrating  the shooting death of Lloyd.
During closing arguments, Prosecutor William McCauley called the football player the trigger man.
Jury deliberations began Tuesday. Even after closing arguments, the motive is still unclear but not legally required to get a conviction. Still, jurors like to know a motive.
Evidence collected in Lloyd's death led to two more murder charges against Hernandez in a separate case in Boston. It's scheduled to begin in May, but officials say it will be pushed back.
The trial has involved a complicated cast of characters, including two sisters who played important roles in the lives of Hernandez and Lloyd
Here is a primer:
Inside the case against Aaron Hernandez
Odin Lloyd
Odin Lloyd was a 27-year-old semi-pro football player for the Boston Bandits.  He was found dead on June 17, 2013, less than a mile from Hernandez's home in North Attleboro, Massachusetts. He had been shot six times. Lloyd met Hernandez while dating Shaneah Jenkins, the sister of Hernandez's fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins. Hernandez is charged with orchestrating Lloyd's execution.
Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado
Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado were killed outside a Boston nightclub on July 16, 2012. Earlier that evening, prosecutors say, de Abreu accidentally bumped into Hernandez, spilling a drink.  Later that night, Hernandez was driving an SUV and allegedly pulled up alongside de Abreu and Furtado's car near the nightclub and fired a .38-caliber revolver at them, killing them. The trial judge in the Lloyd case barred any mention of the Boston deaths, ruling it would be prejudicial.
Alexander Bradley
Authorities say  Alexander Bradley is Hernandez's former right hand man  who was allegedly with Hernandez  on the night de Abreu and Furtado were killed. He is not facing any charges in that case, but he is jailed on unrelated charges. He is suing Hernandez for allegedly shooting him in the face in February 2013, four months before Lloyd's death. Bradley says Hernandez accused him of "disrespecting him" over a cell phone left in a Miami strip club.  Bradley testified against Hernandez in Lloyd's death, telling jurors he saw Hernandez handling what appeared to be a Glock semi-automatic pistol during a trip to Florida. The trial barred him from saying he accused Hernandez of shooting him in the face.
Carlos Ortiz
Carlos Ortiz, nicknamed Charlie Boy, is also charged with murder in the death of Lloyd and has pleaded not guilty. A law enforcement source says he cooperated with police and described the night of Lloyd's death.
Ernest Wallace
Ernest Wallace is also charged with murder in the death of Lloyd. He has pleaded not guilty and is being tried separately.  Prosecutors call him the "muscle man" for Hernandez. They say he was in the car with Hernandez, Lloyd, and Carlos Ortiz an hour before the car is seen on video heading to the industrial park where Lloyd was killed.
Shayanna Jenkins
Shayanna Jenkins is Hernandez's fiancee and the mother of their daughter. She is charged with perjury, accused of lying to a grand jury about guns in their home. She has pleaded not guilty. Her sister, Shaneah, was dating Lloyd at the time of his death.
Shaneah Jenkins
Shaneah Jenkins is the girlfriend of Lloyd. Her sister is Hernandez's fiancée. In court, the two sisters sit on opposite sides, Shayanna with the defense and Shaneah with the prosecution.
Tanya Cummings-Singleton
Tanya Cummings-Singleton is a cousin of Hernandez. In her garage, police found the SUV allegedly driven by Hernandez and linked to the 2012 Boston double homicide. She was twice charged with contempt of court for refusing to testify before two grand juries despite immunity offers. She has pleaded guilty to obstruction in the Lloyd case. She is also suffering from cancer.
Thaddeus Singleton
Thaddeus Singleton, husband of Tanya Cummings-Singleton, was killed in a car accident after Lloyd's slaying. Police say his speeding car went airborne and crashed. A source says police planned to interview him about his relationship with Hernandez.
Shaquilla Thibou
Shaquilla Thibou is the sister of Lloyd. At trial she testified she saw her brother get into a car with three men who turned out to be Hernandez, Wallace and Ortiz before he was killed. Prosecutors say she received a final text from her brother that night minutes before he was shot telling her he was with "Nfl," adding, "just so u know." The judge has ruled that text inadmissible at trial, saying there is no proof it meant Lloyd feared for his life.
Terri Hernandez
Terri Hernandez is Aaron Hernandez's mother. She is a school secretary.
Dennis Hernandez
Dennis Hernandez was Aaron Hernandez's father. He had a close relationship with his sons and was deeply involved in their sports training. He died unexpectedly after hernia surgery when Hernandez was 16.
DJ Hernandez
DJ Hernandez is Aaron Hernandez's older brother. He was a star high school athlete. He also was a standout athlete at the University of Connecticut and is an assistant coach at the University of Iowa.
The prosecution
District Attorney Samuel Sutter, who had been leading the prosecution against Hernandez, is the newly elected mayor of Fall River, where the trial is being held. Assistant District Attorneys William McCauley and Patrick Bomberg are on the team leading the case against Hernandez.  "Probably my career ... will be defined more by this case than all of the other things we've done," Sutter has said.
The defense
Attorneys James Sultan, Michael Fee and Charles Rankin are handling Hernandez's defense. In opening statements, Fee said Hernandez "was planning a future, not a murder."  Before trial, Rankin said he is confident Hernandez will be exonerated.
