(CNN)  -- Martin Kaymer increased his lead in the Race to Dubai with a superlative final round of 66 at St.Andrews to claim a three-shot victory in the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship on Sunday.
The German birdied the final two holes at the home of golf to hold off a determined challenge by England's Danny Willett as he finished on 17-under 271.
But there was disappointment for Lee Westwood who needed a top two finish to immediately dislodge Tiger Woods as world number one, but struggled to a one-over 73 for a tie for 11th.
Westwood, who has been struggling with a recurrence of a calf injury, then confirmed he will not play again until the end of the month at the latest.
But due to a quirk of the rankings, it could mean the Englishman will take over at the top in three weeks' time unless Woods changes his plans and enters a tournament before next month's HSBC Champions in China.
"It's just got more aggravated and achy as the week has gone on," Westwood told Sky Sports after his round.
Kaymer, who claimed his first major title with victory at the PGA Championship, was winning his third straight tournament and again showed his cool under pressure.
With Willett challenging, Kaymer needed to get down in two from just off the green at the famous 17th Road Hole to stay at 15 under.
But he proceeded to hole his putt to suddenly open up a two-shot lead and despite finding a tricky lie on the road at the 18th hit his approach to within 10 feet.
Kaymer duly holed the putt to complete one of his ambitions of winning at St.Andrews and claim his fourth title of a superb season which has seen him move nearly $1.5 million clear of Ryder Cup teammate Graeme McDowell at the top of the European Tour money list.
He had his own views on the ongoing battle to top the rankings.
"To be honest I think at the moment Lee Westwood is number one in the world," Kaymer said. "He plays unbelievable golf."
Overnight leader John Parry of England recovered from a mid-round crisis to finish with a level-par 72 for 13-under and sole third. Another Englishman, Gary Boyd, finished a further shot back for fourth after a fine 68.
