Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini bracketed his striker Sergio Aguero with Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo as one of the "three best players in the world" after the Argentine led his side's 6-0 rout of Tottenham Hotspur Sunday.
Aguero contributed two goals in an all action display at the Etihad Stadium with Jesus Navas also grabbing a double, including an opener after just 14 seconds.
Aguero's strike partner Alvaro Negredo was on target and an own goal from Brazilian international Sandro made for an afternoon of sheer misery for Andre Villas-Boas' visitors.
It was a stunning reaffirmation of City's title credentials and lifted them to fourth in the standings, while Tottenham on a poor recent run, dropped to ninth.
For Pellegrini it was the ideal antidote to their inexplicable away form, they lost 1-0 at struggling Sunderland in the last match before the international break.
"The problem is away but I repeat: I don't think we play so different away from home," he told the official Manchester City website.
"I am absolutely sure that if we continue the way we are we will start to see results away."
At home, last year's runners-up to city rivals Manchester United, are all but invincible, racking up six straight EPL wins and scoring 26 goals, including an earlier 7-0 defeat of Norwich.
Tottenham were on the back foot from the moment goalkeeper Hugo Lloris blundered straight from the kick off to hand Navas the chance to score exquisitely from a tight angle.
The visitors enjoyed their best spell of the match as they attempted to level, but in the 34th minute Lloris was at fault again with another poor kick.
He saved from Aguero, but Negredo followed up and his volley found its way into the net via Sandro.
Aguero then converted a low cross from Navas and five minutes into the second half he made it four with Yaya Toure providing the assist.
Negredo and Navas added further goals as a Tottenham defense which had conceded just six goals all season disintegrated.
"Everything went wrong for us, it's very hard to find explanations," Villas-Boas said.
City and Pellegrini's day got better later Sunday as Manchester United were held 2-2 at promoted Cardiff having twice led.
Wayne Rooney put the champions ahead before Frazier Campbell leveled for the Welsh side with a superb strike.
Patrice Evra headed United ahead from a Rooney corner, but David Moyes' men could not hold their advantage and Campbell nearly equalized only to see his clever chip hit the woodwork.
Danny Welbeck might have sealed a precious three points for United, but in the final minute Korean Kim Bo-kyung leveled with an emphatic header of his own for Cardiff.
It prevented United from climbing into the top four and they trail leaders Arsenal by seven points after 12 games.
In Italy, champions Juventus returned to the top of the Serie A table with a 2-0 away win over Livorno in Tuscany.
It took second half strikes from Fernando Llorente and Carlos Tevez to end the promoted home side's resistance.
Llorente slammed home a volley just after the hour mark before setting up Argentina's Tevez for the clinching second in the 75th minute.
Juve lead Roma by two points, but the early pacesetters can return to the top with a win over Cagliari Monday.
