Premier League big-spenders Manchester City will renew their search for a new world-class striker after ending their interest in Barcelona striker Samuel Eto'o.
Eto'o will not be playing for Manchester City next season after the English club ended their interest in him.
The Cameroon international, who is about to embark on the last year of his contract at the Nou Camp, felt he should receive a significant portion of the £18million ($29m) fee City were willing to pay -- as he would be entitled to leave for nothing next summer.
City manager Mark Hughes initially signalled his intention to wait for Eto'o to resolve the wrangle. Yet, as the week has dragged on, the argument has just got more confusing and complicated. Latest transfer rumors and gossip
It was suggested City were ready to offer Eto'o a deadline of this weekend to determine his future. However, in the end, City chairman Khaldoon al-Mubarak did not even give the 28-year-old that long, with Barcelona officially contacted on Friday with confirmation the deal was off.
"Samuel Eto'o is undoubtedly a fine footballer but the circumstances surrounding him were such that the deal could not be completed," City chief executive Garry Cook told the club's official Web site.
"We now feel the time is right to pursue other avenues. We have a clear strategic transfer plan, which we continue to follow."
England midfielder Gareth Barry and Paraguayan striker Roque Santa Cruz have already joined the club this summer and Argentine forward Carlos Tevez is expected to complete his move from rivals Manchester United in the near future.
Chelsea and England captain John Terry and Everton defender Joleon Lescott also remain high on the club's wish-list.
Meanwhile, two players leaving the club are midfielder Gelson Fernandes and Brazilian striker Jo. Swiss international Fernandes has completed his move to French side St Etienne, while Jo has returned to Everton on loan for the season.
In other transfer news, Sunderland have swooped to sign Manchester United's reserve team striker Fraizer Campbell for £3.5m ($5.67m) on a four-year contract.
