World motorcycling champion Casey Stoner is determined to show he is still the man to beat in 2012, having set the early pace ahead of the MotoGP season's opening race in Qatar on Sunday.
The 26-year-old Australian led the pack at Thursday's first practice session at Losail, and was also fastest at the first of two runs on Friday. The Honda rider was followed by Yamaha's 2010 world champion Jorge Lorenzo of Italy in both outings.
Ducati's American rider Nicky Hayden, another to have won the championship, finished third on Thursday -- while Honda's Andrea Dovizioso was in that position after Friday's opener.
Stoner has been in sparkling form during pre-season testing along with Spanish teammate Dani Pedrosa, who was fourth last year after an injury-hit season.
"We started this evening with huge chatter issues and I was a little afraid we couldn't fix this but after a few more exits we managed to reduce it to a more comfortable level," Stoner, who has won the world title with two different teams, said on the MotoGP website after Thursday's session.
"This is a positive point for the weekend but with such a short session it's slightly strange. It was an okay start."
Marco Simoncelli: The motorcycling star who shined so bright
In contrast, it was a slow start for Valentino Rossi, a seven-time world champion in the sport's premier class, who finished the Thursday session in 10th place and the same again in Friday's first run.
The Italian rider will be hoping to make a comeback after a disappointing 2011 season, his first with Ducati after a long period of dominance at Yamaha.
Rossi and teammate Hayden must also familiarize themselves with the still-new Desmosedici GP12 machines.
"I used the hard tire the whole session, trying to do a lot of laps in order to understand it. The new tire is much better for warming up, so good for safety, but it started to slide a lot after some laps and made some of the under-steer worse," Rossi said.
"We have to work with the setting and also the electronics. The soft will be important for Saturday (qualifying), but the hard will be the tire for the race."
