The National Collegiate Athletic Association on Tuesday imposed a postseason ban on The Ohio State University's football program, effective next year, citing the school for "failure to monitor, preferential treatment and extra benefit violations."
Ohio State had previously said it was vacating all 12 of its victories from the 2010 football season and placing itself on two years' probation after a scandal that cost coach Jim Tressel his job.
Tressel resigned after being fined $250,000 and suspended for lying to NCAA officials investigating allegations that his players had received special benefits from local businesses.
Several players, including star quarterback Terrelle Pryor, allegedly swapped team and personal memorabilia and equipment for tattoos and other benefits. Tressel became aware of the transactions, which violate NCAA rules, but did not report them on a form that all coaches are required to submit.
"Of great concern to the committee was the fact that the former head coach became aware of these violations and decided not to report the violations to institutional officials, the Big Ten Conference or the NCAA," the NCAA Division 1 Committee on Infractions said in its report.
Tressel received a five-year show-cause order that limits his athletic-related duties and applies to any NCAA school that may want to hire him.
In addition to the postseason ban, the NCAA imposed penalties of additional scholarship reductions, three years' probation, and the forfeiture of almost $340,000 and all of Ohio State's victories for the 2010 season.
"We are surprised and disappointed with the NCAA's decision," Gene Smith, Ohio State's athletics director and associate vice president, said in a statement. "However, we have decided not to appeal the decision because we need to move forward as an institution."
"My primary concern, as always, is for our students, and this decision punishes future students for the actions of others in the past," Smith said. "Knowing our student-athletes, however, I have no doubt in their capacity to turn this into something positive -- for themselves and for the institution."
