As the world was grieving and looking for answers in the death of Whitney Houston, Houston's 18-year-old daughter, Bobbi Kristina, was taken to a Los Angeles hospital, police said.
Beverly Hills police said Sunday the teen was taken to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center at about 11:15 a.m. She was released later Sunday and was expected to head to New Jersey, where her grandmother lives, as early as Sunday night, a source close to the family told CNN.
Singer Kim Burrell, a family friend, told CNN on Sunday afternoon from the Grammy Awards' red carpet that she was with the teenager on Saturday at the Beverly Hilton Hotel after Houston died. This was a few hours after Burrell said she'd exchanged messages with her close friend, Houston, after she arrived in Los Angeles for the festivities.
Whitney Houston's death sets somber tone for Grammys
"As to be expected, she's overwhelmed -- it's her mother. She knows how much her mother meant to the world. And Bobbi Kristina has a huge heart, just like her mother," said Burrell, adding that that Bobbi Kristina affectionately refers to her as "Auntie Kim."
"She loves hard," Burrell said of Bobbi Kristina. "She's going to be OK, and we're going to see to it."
Bobbi Kristina Brown was born in 1993, during Houston's marriage to R&B singer Bobby Brown, which ended in divorce in 2007.
The daughter of music royalty became publicly known during the mid-2000s reality show "Being Bobby Brown," where she frequently appeared alongside her parents and often had a front-row seat to their marital fireworks.
Houston once said of her only child, "She encourages me and inspires me. When I look at her eyes and I see myself, I go, 'Okay. I can do this. I can do this.'"
Mother and daughter even performed together on national TV in 2009, when the two sang "My Love Is Your Love" in Central Park on ABC's "Good Morning America."
Results from Houston autopsy could take weeks
Bobbi Kristina Brown proved she could do it on her own when she posted a video on Twitter of herself singing Adele's "Someone Like You" last September. So far the video has been viewed more than 100,000 times on YouTube.
Bobbi Kristina Brown has previously given insight into her relationship with her mother, stating on Twitter, "I love my family so much ... I'm so thankful for (my mother). Thank you so much lord for blessing me with an Phenomenal family and incredibly phenomenal mother."
Less than 24 hours after Whitney Houston's death stunned fans and the entertainment world, her admirers became tearful and worried again Sunday upon hearing the news that Houston's daughter was taken to the hospital.
"Really, oh my gosh," said Trudy Hunchar, a flight attendant who was accompanied by her 12-year-old daughter, Quinn.
On Sunday afternoon, the mom and daughter were paying their last respects to Houston outside the Beverly Hilton Hotel, where the 48-year-old singer died the day before. The parent and child came to the hotel to add a light-pink rose to a growing sidewalk memorial of flowers and candles created by fans.
"I'm just hoping it's anxiety or a panic attack or hurt," Hunchar said of the daughter's hospital visit.
Then Hunchar expressed concern about the entertainment industry because the Denver family was visiting Los Angeles so that 12-year-old Quinn, an aspiring actress with a movie credit, could meet with an agent and manager about an acting career.
"With her coming into this business," Hunchar said, pointing to her daughter, "I'll have a tough hand on her. She's got a strong head. She's pretty smart. This business is tough, and as best as I can, I'll have a hand on her."
HLNtv.com's Jonathan Anker and CNN's Michael Martinez contributed to this report.
