(CNN Student News) -- October 28, 2013
As President Obama orders a review of U.S. government surveillance programs, some American citizens and lawmakers speak out against the NSA. Get the details in Monday's program. We also report on new species discovered in the Amazon Rainforest. Plus, we look into the NFL's global expansion plans, and we discuss a significant victory for an African-American NASCAR driver.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What factors might make a protest newsworthy for a national audience?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. National Security Agency (NSA)
2. biodiversity
3. NASCAR
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What were some newly discovered animal and plant species announced by the World Wildlife Fund? Where were these species found?
2. What were the circumstances surrounding an NFL game played in London yesterday? What did people in the report say about the NFL's series of games in London?
3. What race did Darrell Wallace, Jr. win this past weekend? Why is his victory considered significant?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that citizens, lawmakers, and world leaders are speaking out against alleged data collection and spying by the National Security Agency (NSA)? Why might a government security agency try to collect information about citizens and world leaders? What might the organization risk in trying to do so?
2. What environmental conditions might influence a habitat's biodiversity? Why might conservationists publicly announce the existence of previously undiscovered species? Can you think of any risks of announcing these findings? Explain.
3. What might be the benefits and challenges of expanding a professional sports franchise into a new market? How might a team's owners measure success? Do you think that an NFL team in London would be successful? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
South America
Europe
London
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
