For over half a century, Formula One has been a man's game.
But maybe no more as the sport's glass ceiling suffered a further fracture on Wednesday.
Monisha Kaltenborn became the sport's first female team principal when she was handed the reins at Sauber in October and now Williams has followed suit after appointing Claire Williams to a similar key role.
The daughter of team founder Frank Williams, the 36-year-old will work alongside her father as deputy team principal.
The British team is the only constructor which currently employs a female driver with Susie Wolff testing for the marque.
"I'm truly honored to be taking on the role of deputy team principal and look forward to working alongside Frank to help run the team this season and beyond," Claire told Williams' official website.
"I have grown up in the sport and have learned the ropes from one of Formula One's legendary team principals and as a result I feel well equipped for this new challenge.
"I understand the commitment that every person within the team gives each day to see our car out on the track and I am determined to see us back at the top."
Williams are one of the most successful teams in F1 history, winning nine constructors' championships and seven drivers' titles since making their debut at the 1978 Argentine Grand Prix.
But in recent times the team has floundered, although Venezuelan driver Pastor Maldonado did pick up Williams' first race win since 2004 at last year's Spanish Grand Prix.
Frank Williams, who is tetraplegic and has been confined to a wheelchair since a car accident in 1986, is confident the future of the team is in safe hands.
"Over the past decade Claire has worked tirelessly for Williams," said the 70-year-old.
"Her knowledge of the sport and passion for the team is unquestionable and I'm proud to say that during her time here she has proven herself to be one of our most valuable assets.
"With Claire being appointed Deputy Team Principal, I know the future of Williams is in extremely safe hands.
"This appointment also had Ginny's blessing who I know would have been incredibly proud to have seen Claire taking on this position by my side," added Williams, referring to his wife Virginia, who died earlier this month of cancer.
Williams' driver pairing of Maldonado and rookie Valtteri Bottas will both be on the grid for the Chinese Grand Prix on April 14.
