Last year's inaugural live stream of the Super Bowl got its fair share of criticism, but it did set a precedent for how technology can affect our enjoyment of the year's most-hyped sporting event.
This year, Sunday's big game is once again being streamed live online for those who can't camp out in front of their big-screen TVs. Between streaming options, mobile apps and social media chatter, there are plenty of options to take part in what's become a national pastime: eating unhealthy food, joking about the commercials and tuning in to what everyone hopes will be a great game.
Whether you'll be watching the San Francisco 49ers take on the Baltimore Ravens at the Superdome in New Orleans, hosting a viewing party or watching solo, here are five ways tech can help you kick off a better Super Bowl.
1. If you're watching online
Super Bowl XLVII itself begins at 6:30 p.m. ET and will be streamed on CBSSports.com and NFL.com to laptops, tablets and smartphones. On CBS's stream, fans can choose from four camera angles to get a better perspective on the action, follow along with a curated Twitter feed, and check out the commercials as they air on TV via an interactive gallery. Real-time statistics and game highlights will also be available.
Beyonce's lip-syncing at President Obama's inauguration last week has raised the stakes on her Super Bowl halftime performance. But so has the fact that it'll be the first one to be live-streamed online. (No pressure, Bey.) For the record, she says she'll be singing live this time.
2. If you need to make a beer/soda/chicken wing run
The best-case scenario is that you're well-stocked with snackage and drinks well before the pre-show starts at 6 p.m. and don't have to move an inch until the final whistle. But in case you must tear yourself away from your TV or laptop, there are some mobile apps that'll suffice in a pinch.
ESPN ScoreCenter will keep you up-to-date on each play and is available for Apple, Android and Windows devices. If you want to keep it team-specific, both teams in Sunday's game have free mobile apps equipped for the iPhone, Android and BlackBerry.
The 49ers Gameday Live app offers team news, real-time statistics and an integrated Twitter feed, while the Ravens roll out stats and news via their official app and mobile site, which hosts live scores.
If you're a Verizon Wireless subscriber with an iPhone, there's also NFL Mobile, which offers live video of the Super Bowl.
3. If you're on Twitter
As anyone knows if they've watched a live national TV event with their phone or tablet recently, the best commentary can happen on Twitter and Facebook. The official hashtag to follow is #CBSSuperBowl, although others are sure to pop up during the game.
Social-media monitoring company Sysomos has put together this handy infographic of game-related handles to start following. The list includes some obvious choices, like the Twitter feeds for both teams (that would be @Ravens and @49ers), but also those who follow football closely, like Sports Illustrated's Richard Deitsch, Bleacher Report's Ty Schalter and Matt Loede of NFL Gridiron Gab.
For the official word on the game, the New Orleans Super Bowl Committee has its own Twitter account. HLN's website recommends 49ers tight end Vernon Davis and quarterback Colin Kaepernick, along with Ravens wide receiver Torrey Smith and kicker Justin Tucker, as top picks for Super Bowl players who are active on Twitter and photo-sharing app Instagram.
Considering her upcoming Super Bowl commercial is already one of the game's most buzzed-about ad spots, we're going to throw in model Kate Upton as well.
4. If you're in New Orleans
If you're attending the game, you've clearly got your viewing problems solved. But there are still a few apps that can make your New Orleans stay more enjoyable.
HLNtv.com: Entrepreneur helps you experience N'awlins the right way
Thanks to the results of the Codemkrs Super Challenge, which pulled together developers and programmers for a weekend of Web app creation, there are four apps in particular that you might find useful.
The first-place winner was Eat Now! New Orleans, which helps steer you toward restaurants that aren't completely booked. NolaParks helps you locate outdoor activities, parks and playgrounds, while GigsGuru zeroes in on places to find live music. And if you have a great experience with a server, you can share it on HeartBucket, which not only highlights the act of kindness for all to see but also alerts that person's superior.
Verizon subscribers can check out the Super Bowl XLVII Guide app for the iPhone, which includes a breakdown of Big Easy restaurants and music venues in addition to official game events.
5. If you're watching alone
Watching the game by your lonesome doesn't have to be lonely. The TOK Football app for the iPad allows you to chat with up to four of your friends while watching the game. And the "social sports book" OnSports app for the iPhone help you connect with other fans.
