A former soldier arrested after a hostage incident at a military base in Georgia faces multiple charges that include threatening to kill President Barack Obama and former President Bill Clinton, according to federal court documents filed Tuesday.
Robert Anthony Quinones, 29, of Hinesville, Georgia, was arrested Monday after the two-hour hostage situation at Winn Community Hospital on Fort Stewart, about 45 miles from Savannah, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Officials and a family member said he had demanded mental health care at the hospital.
Quinones is charged with assault of a federal officer and kidnapping in the incident, which ended with the gunman's surrender and no injuries.
After he was taken into custody and during interviews, Quinones "expressed his plans, preparation and intentions to kill President Obama and former President Clinton," according to an affidavit filed in federal cour. "Quinones detailed his studies of Secret Service protocols, sniper techniques and means of disguise and weapons concealment to implement his assassination plans."
A search of his residence resulted in the discovery of 11 long guns, four pistols, multiple rounds of ammunition and dozens of bayonets and knives, according to the affidavit.
Authorities also found books and manuals about FBI hostage rescue teams, Osama bin Laden, Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh, the Russian Mafia and other topics, according to the affidavit signed by FBI and Secret Service agents.
Quinones, when asked if he would kill Obama or Clinton if given a chance, said, "Yes. On a scale of 1 to 10 about being serious, I am a 10," the affidavit said.
Quinones was discharged from the military in February and had a civilian job at Fort Stewart, said the FBI, which released no other information on his military record.
Quinones' mother, Janet Gladwell, told the Associated Press he was medically discharged from the Army months ago because he suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder.
A neighbor, Jerry Franklin, said he had known Quinones for several years. "He was a good kid," he said.
Franklin, 48, an Army retiree, said Quinones would talk with he and other veterans because they understood the stress brought on by combat. Quinones had served two tours in Iraq, said Franklin.
"All I know is he saw death," Franklin told CNN.
"Maybe they [the Army] should have helped him a little more," said Franklin, adding he was not blaming the military for the incident. Quinones might not have received sufficient individual treatment after returning from Iraq, Franklin said.
Quinones worked at one of Fort Stewart's post-exchange stores. the neighbor said, adding he didn't believe Quinones had been treated at Winn Army Community Hospital, scene of Monday's hostage situation.
The hostage incident started at about 4 a.m. Monday when the former Army serviceman entered the facility and demanded care, spokesman Kevin Larson said Monday.
Brig. Gen. Jeffrey Phillips, a senior Fort Stewart commander, told the Associated Press the former soldier told hostages he needed help for mental problems "connected, I'm quite certain, to his past service."
The gunman immediately took one hostage and went to the third floor, which houses the behavioral health unit, where he held two more people at gunpoint, including a nurse practitioner, Larson said. The nurse, an Army major, was able to calm the man and authorities started negotiations, Larson said. The gunman  eventually surrendered and was taken into custody for questioning, he said.
Quinones was armed with an MP5 assault rifle, an AR-15 assault rifle, a 9 millimeter handgun and a .38-caliber pistol, according to the affidavit. It accuses the gunman of pointing a firearm at an Army negotiator.
Quinones' attorney, Karl Christian Zipperer, said late Tuesday afternoon he had just gotten the case and would have no comment.  A phone number for Quinones in Hinesville was disconnected.
The suspect's initial appearance is scheduled for Wednesday before a U.S. magistrate judge in Savannah, the FBI said in a statement.
CNN's Phil Gast contributed to this report.
