(RealSimple.com) -- Some parents and kids admit to some creative fibbing.
I say that the ice cream truck that drives through our neighborhood is the "music truck." It plays music for people to enjoy during the summertime. --Breeze Watson; Lansing, Michigan
When I don't feel like playing with the toy that my toddler chooses, I tell her that it is out of batteries, even if the toy doesn't take batteries. It works with TV shows, too. "Sorry, honey, Dora must need new batteries. We'll check back later."  --Christine Stevens; Issaquah, Washington
RealSimple.com: 50 family recipes kids actually like
I pretend fortune-cookie fortunes say things like "Your bedtime tonight will be 15 minutes earlier." Unfortunately, this works only until they can read.  --Rebecca Einstein Schorr; Fountain Valley, California
"Yes, we're having chicken for dinner." (I actually served fish.)  --Doreen Saiz Flores; Barstow, California
That the car won't start unless everyone is buckled in. I just jiggle the keys in the ignition until the last belt clicks.  --Jennifer Nilson; Roscoe, Illinois
RealSimple.com: "You did what?"
When my daughter begged to stop at a playground, I said, "Sorry, all the playgrounds are closed now." She wisely asked why other children were playing at one we passed. I answered that they were not following the rules.  --Carol Catena ; New York, New York
My two-year-old believes that certain toys "live" at the store and are there to be visited.  --Cyn Rielley; Sutton, Massachusetts
"The tooth fairy didn't come last night because she was sick. Her substitute must have been very confused by the new route. I am sure she will come tonight."  --Julie Nichols Forrer; Plano, Texas
"Things in the checkout aisle are for decoration and we aren't supposed to mess them up."  --Erin Seebaldt Olson; Detroit, Michigan
To get our picky three-year-old to eat, we say that vegetables will make him super strong. At the table, we let him attempt to lift our arms. By the end of the meal, he can hoist our hands over our heads with one finger!  --Michele Buzek Bakker; McKeesport, Pennsylvania
"It's not red cabbage -- it's purple spaghetti."  --Anne-Marie O'Neill; Brooklyn, New York
RealSimple.com: Vegetables in disguise
My son had a crush on a girl on Barney. I made spinach balls -- something he wouldn't ordinarily touch -- and told him they were her recipe. He politely ate them!  --Christine Mills Searle; Cleveland, Ohio
When I'm getting ready in the bathroom and the kids start banging on the door, I pretend that it's stuck when I really have it locked.  --Sherry Whelchel Corbett; Bostic, North Carolina
"McDonald's is closed for a private party."  --Michelle Suchand Mcpherson; Virginia Beach, Virginia
I told my friend's son that the compass on the dashboard of my car was a tracking device so that his mom could immediately find us if he misbehaved.  Rogenia Argoe Lembo  Manassas, Virginia
RealSimple.com: 6 road trip games for kids
That I'm still 29. --Deb Ward; Richfield, Wisconsin
"That lady on the cover of the fashion magazine is a drawing. No one looks like that in real life."  --Katie Penland; Dyersburg, Tennessee
"The sugar cookies that Grandma made are kind of spicy." (So I could have them all for myself.)  --Rebecca Scott; Sauk Rapids, Minnesota
My son thinks he has a heated seat in the back of our car, and I haven't had the heart to tell him the truth. I love to ask him if he feels his tush getting warm.  --Tracy Smith Goldberg; Hastings-on-Hudson, New York
Before moving into our house, I told my kids that we paid extra to have it sprayed for ghosts. --Amy Talcott Kennard; Peoria, Illinois
RealSimple.com: How to remove crayon, glue, and more kid stains
"No, darling, I'm not upset that you ate SpaghettiOs in the living room and spilled them all over the tan couch and the beige carpet."  --Jennifer Thornton; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
"The vacuum cleaner will suck up all your toys." You should see my kids rush to clean up whenever they hear the vacuum going.  --Shasta Brucker; Buckley, Washington
Kids, What Little Lie Have You Told Recently?
"Mom said I could have an ice cream sandwich for breakfast."  --Roland, age 3
"Yes, I brushed my teeth."  --Jack, age 9
RealSimple.com: The best kid's toothpastes
--"I got hit by a limo and the stars inside the car stole my homework."  Jason, age 11
--When asked how her lunch suddenly disappeared: "A big monster with green teeth and purple hair came into the kitchen and stole it."  Claire, age 3
--"I told my dad I couldn't clean my room because I was depressed that my cat died. He started laughing because my cat died two years ago."  Anu, age 11
--While covered in bright orange dust: "No, I have not been eating Cheetos."  Reece, age 3
--"My mommy is having another baby."  Maclyn, age 6
RealSimple.com: Outrageous kids' quotes
--"No, Mommy, I didn't pick the flowers. They just fell off."  Kimberly, age 7
--"I told people that I never told a lie before."  Ayanna, age 9
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of Real Simple - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2010 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
