Li Na set up a French Open semifinal clash with former world number one Maria Sharapova after toppling fourth seed Victoria Azarenka at Roland Garros.
It is the first time that Li, from China, has made the final four in Paris and she did it in style by knocking out the highest remaining seed 7-5 6-2 on Court Philippe Chatrier.
Sharapova looked in fine form after a ruthless display against Andrea Petkovic, beating her German opponent 6-0 6-3, and is now in sight of completing a career Grand Slam, having won the other three major tournaments on the tennis calendar.
The winner of their clash will face either defending champion Francesca Schiavone, from Italy, or France's 11th seed Marion Bartoli in the final.
Li was beaten in the final of the Australian Open by Kim Clijsters back in January, when she became the first Chinese player to make a major final.
And she is now one win away from another after a battling display against her opponent from Belarus that saw her hit back from a break down in each set.
In the opener, Li dropped the third game on her serve but hit back immediately, before taking a 4-3 lead after a marathon seventh game. She held out to clinch the first 7-5.
Again Li found herself a break down early in the second set but made her speed around the court count to peg Azarenka back instantly and surge to the finishing line.
"After I won the match I was feeling, 'Wow, I can play semi in Roland Garros'. I never think about that before," Li told AFP.
"So many people think I'm not so good on a clay court, but I think now they should change a little bit."
Sharapova took just 91 minutes to seal her victory, breaking Petkovic in the first, third and fifth games to complete a whitewash in the opening set.
Despite being held at 3-3 in the second, Sharapova then stormed ahead to clinch the match.
"It was tougher than the scoreline suggests. There were a lot of games that could have gone either way. I played really smart on the important points," Sharapova was quoted as saying by AFP.
"There is no doubt I have improved on this surface. As the years have gone on I feel I have got better and better.
"I feel physically I have overcome many challenges that maybe a few years ago would have been tough for me."
