The nearly 100 children living at an orphanage in Carrefour, Haiti, are hungry and thirsty, and desperately waiting for aid, a member of the orphan's foundation told CNN on Saturday.
All of the buildings of the Good Shepherd Orphanage, about eight miles from the capital of Port-au-Prince, were "damaged beyond repair," including the dormitories, said David Zimmer, treasurer for the Good Shepherd Orphanage and Schools Foundation.
Zimmer spoke to CNN from Hebron, Kentucky, but said he has been in communication with the head of the orphanage, Pastor Ernst Cassy, who has worked in Carrefour for 40 years. He has also received messages via e-mail from staff in Carrefour, Zimmer said.
The news he and his wife have received is heart-wrenching: The roads are impassable, Cassy has run out of food and the well they used to collect drinking water was damaged in Tuesday's 7.0-magnitude quake.
Get the latest developments in Haiti
About 40,000 homeless people have sought refuge in the streets. The electricity is out and so is the gas that powered the generators. On the night of the quake, moans and screams pierced the dark.
"If they don't get food and water there will be unrest like you can't believe," Zimmer said.
The Good Shepherd Orphanage is just one of several crippled recently.
Reports of pancaked orphanages stretch from Port-au-Prince to the southern coastal town of Jacmel.
Are you in Haiti and safe? Share your photos
In the capital on Friday, chaos broke out at the Maison De Lumiere Orphanage after severe shortages of food, water and medicine sparked an outcry, said Mike Maiolo, senior pastor of the volunteers' home church in Mission Viejo, California. The building sustained heavy damage but no one was killed, he said.
Many children who had parents on Tuesday morning, were orphans by that night. A doctor told CNN's Elizabeth Cohen on Friday that the number of orphans had tripled after the quake.
Zimmer said he plans to fly into Port-au-Prince on Tuesday.
View or add to CNN's database of missing persons in Haiti
CNN's Khadijah Rentas and Stan Wilson contributed to this report
