(CNN)  -- Jose Mourinho has admitted that he is likely to take over at Real Madrid, in an attempt to become the first coach in history to win the Champions League with three different clubs.
In the aftermath of Inter Milan's 2-0 victory over Bayern Munich on Saturday, Mourinho made a point of going over to the Inter fans, appearing to wave goodbye to them in the process, and the Portuguese later confirmed to reporters that he is expecting to be at the Santiago Bernabeu on a more regular basis next season.
Although Manuel Pellegrini continues to be coach of Real, speculation surrounding Mourinho's probable appointment intensified in the days leading up to the Champions League final -- and the former Chelsea manager finally revealed that all the speculation had been true.
"The 2004 Champions League was my last game for Porto and this will almost certainly be my last game for Inter," Mourinho told Italian TV station RAI.
World Sport blog: Mourinho will bring magic to Madrid
"I want another challenge in my career. I want to become the only coach to win the Champions League with three different clubs.
"It's not definite that I'll go but I want new risks, new experiences, and now is the moment to decide."
Although he stopped short of saying he will definitely be charge in of Real Madrid next season, Mourinho then added: "I don't know the (Madrid) project yet, so I have to hear the project, but at the moment I am not the coach of Real Madrid; I am the coach of Inter and a very proud coach of Inter.
"Inter remains an option and I have a fantastic family here, but Real is the best option I have. The percentage of me leaving is higher than that of staying."
"Madrid is an enormous club, a club that wants the same as me; I want to win, I want to feel important, I want to keep winning."
Real Madrid have been forced to play second fiddle to Spanish rivals Barcelona in recent seasons -- going out of the Champions League at the last 16 stage six years in a row and winning just two trophies in seven seasons.
