A Massachusetts child rape suspect is wanted in connection with cross country spree of sexual assaults, kidnappings and armed robberies, police said.
Gregory Lewis, 26, allegedly committed at least six sexual assaults in various states since fleeing Massachusetts in September, according to the Massachusetts State Police.
Several victims in the latest assaults were women he arranged to meet at local hotels through online escort services, police said. The victims were handcuffed, threatened with a gun, robbed and sexually assaulted.
Lewis may have been in the Columbus, Ohio area as recently as Sunday, police said. He also was spotted the day before in Indianapolis, Indiana, where he allegedly committed a robbery at a hotel and was captured on surveillance video.
Lewis went on his alleged crime spree along his trip west and then circled back east, police said. He was spotted in Denver, Colorado; Portland, Oregon; Boise, Idaho, and Salt Lake City; Utah during the month of October, authorities said.
One alleged victim in Colorado, told CNN affiliate WCVB that Lewis is desperate.
"My message to everybody is that he is extremely dangerous," she told the station, asking to remain anonymous. "He hurt me in a very traumatic way. He is going to continue to hurt anyone he comes across in a traumatic way. He told me that if anyone contacts authorities on him ever, he will make it his life's mission to come back and find us."
Lewis was arrested August 5 and charged with raping a 14-year-old girl in Southbridge, Massachusetts, police said. He was accused of four felony child rape charges, along with counts related to home invasion, kidnapping and firearms possession.
The suspect was released on bail after his initial court hearing and ordered by the court to wear a GPS monitoring bracelet. On September 15, he cut off the bracelet, left it in the front yard of his young victim's home and fled Massachusetts in a 2004 Jeep Cherokee, police said.
The Jeep, with Massachusetts plate number of 85GF63, is blue, with fog lights in the front and alloy rims.
After fleeing Massachusetts, Lewis first traveled to Charlotte, North Carolina, where he allegedly kidnapped, assaulted and robbed a woman on September 23, police said.
The alleged victim, who spoke with CNN affiliate WSOC over the phone, said she met him on the Plenty of Fish dating website.
"He put me in a choke hold and put handcuffs on me with my hands behind my back and said I'm not going to hurt you. I just want your money," she said.
Two days after the North Carolina assault, police said, Lewis returned to his family's home in Massachusetts, where he allegedly beat and robbed his stepfather.
"This gentleman was literally shackled and held in the home, with a metal shackle," Southbridge Police Chief Daniel Charette told CNN affiliate WCVB.
Southbridge Police Detective Sgt. Carlos Dingui said Lewis handcuffed his stepfather to prevent him from calling police.
Lewis left Southbridge with his stepfather's Beretta 9mm semiautomatic handgun, according to Dingui. He also took approximately 200 rounds of ammunition.
Lewis has been place at the top of the Massachusetts State Police's Most Wanted List. He is considered armed and dangerous. Anyone with information on his whereabouts should call the Massachusetts State Police Violent Fugitive Apprehension Section at 1-800-KAPTURE.
