(EW.com) -- Emily Wickersham is joining "NCIS" full-time.
The actress, who was cast in the role of NSA analyst Eleanor "Ellie" Bishop back in September, has been promoted to a series regular, CBS announced Monday.
Wickersham, who has also appeared on "The Sopranos," was originally slated for three episodes but according to producers her work with the team has proved a success.
'Bones,' 'Arrow,' 'NCIS: LA,' 'Vampire Diaries': Find out what's next
"Emily Wickersham's Ellie Bishop is proving to perfectly compliment the NCIS team," said executive producer Gary Glasberg in a statement. "Her energy and enthusiasm is contagious. Great things are planned for Bishop and we couldn't be more thrilled to have her on board."
Wickersham, whose first episode airs November 19, fills an empty series regular spot on the show that has been there since the second episode of the current season, when Cote de Pablo's Ziva left the show.
(Since Ziva's departure, the storyline has focused a fair amount on the team's reaction to her sudden departure. )
'NCIS' boss previews team without Ziva: 'It's going to take time for our characters to move on'
Ellie Bishop, who is described as "a mysterious mixture of analytic brilliance, fierce determination and idealism," will be introduced when it is discovered that the Secretary of the Navy was bugged during a confidential briefing, a security breach Bishop described in exact detail two years ago in a threat analysis report.
Working side-by-side with Gibbs and the team, Bishop will cross-examine the case file to help determine who is behind the crime.
When EW spoke to star Michael Weatherly earlier this year, when the cast had already had time to work with Wickersham, he said, "We're excited about having Emily join us on these little adventures we do every week, and seeing how she is in the world that we create together ... I hope the audience likes her as much as we did right away."
See the original story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
