(CNN Student News) -- January 13, 2014
Monday's show catches you up on some major stories that made headlines over the weekend, from the passing of a former Israeli leader to the anniversary of a catastrophic earthquake in Haiti. We'll also cover the latest U.S. jobs numbers, which disappointed many economists, and we'll look into the season-long suspension of a baseball superstar.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were producing a story looking back on the anniversary of a natural disaster, what would your focus be? What elements would you include in your story?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Haiti
2. economic indicator
3. arbitrator
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Who was Ariel Sharon? According to the video: How would his supporters describe him? How would his critics characterize him?
2. According to the federal government, what is the current U.S. unemployment rate? What is this number based on? Who is not counted in this number?
3. What natural disaster took place in Haiti four years ago?
4. According to the report: What "dishonorable distinction" has Major League Baseball player Alex Rodriguez just acquired? Why? How did Rodriguez respond to this announcement?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you know about the conflict in the Middle East? How are ripple effects of this conflict felt in other places around the world? Why do you think that this conflict is significant to many outside that region?
2. In the video, we hear one economist describe the current state of the U.S. economy as a "frustrating situation." Why does he believe this is so? What do you think is the best way to promote job growth? Should there be more government action, or should government get out of the way? Discuss.
3. What do you think about the 162-game suspension given to Alex Rodriguez for his alleged use of performance-enhancing drugs? What is your opinion of the use of illegal PEDs in professional sports? To what extent do you think that athletes should be penalized for the use of PEDs?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
