Former Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra is no longer in military custody, according to a highly placed source in the junta that took over Thailand in a coup d'etat last week.
A source close to Yingluck also confirmed to CNN that she was released from a military camp.
The former prime minister was ordered to report to the military junta, the National Council for Peace and Order, on Friday. More than 100 others, including politicians and activists, have also been summoned.
The armed forces seized power in a coup Thursday after months of turmoil that paralyzed much of the government and caused deadly clashes in Bangkok.
Yingluck was freed after she reported to the Thai military, the junta source told CNN, adding that the former prime minister was asked to "help us maintain peace and order and not to get involved with protesters or any political movement."
The military source, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation, insisted that Yingluck has freedom of movement and communications.
A close aide to the former prime minister could not confirm when Yingluck was released, and contradicted the military's assertion that she was free to move around.
"I don't think she has freedom of mobility and communication," the source said.
Altogether, around 150 people will be required to appear before the National Council for Peace and Order, a military spokesman said Saturday.
Those summoned include academics and one of Yingluck's chief opponents, "Yellow Shirt" movement leader Sondhi Limthongkul. The politician suffered a gunshot wound to the head during unrest in 2009 but later recovered.
"We want to give them some time to relax and have time to think over the problem," the spokesman said.
The council wants to "adjust their perception and make them think about the country, think about the Thai people as a whole, not just one particular group."
Street protests
Bangkok was for the most part peaceful Sunday, although there was some jostling between protesters voicing their opposition to the coup and security forces.
More organized protests are expected in the capital on Monday.
The junta has imposed martial law, which includes a curfew, and shut out independent media reporting. CNN International's broadcasting has been blacked out in Thailand.
It also dissolved the Senate, according to a statement from the military chief read on the country's broadcast outlets.
On Saturday, a number of major TV stations were back on air, including MCOT, TPBS and NBT.
Is Thailand safe for tourists?
Thai military: Think before you tweet
CNN's Kocka Olarn and Paula Hancocks reported from Bangkok and Laura Smith-Spark wrote from London.
