Rafael Nadal became the second man to win four successive French Open titles on Sunday after crushing world No. 1 Roger Federer in straight sets in the final in Paris.
The Spaniard triumphed 6-1 6-3 6-0 to hand Federer a third straight defeat in the final at Roland Garros, with the Swiss top seed still seeking to win the only Grand Slam crown missing from his collection.
And the manner of his comprehensive victory left little doubt that Federer, who has won 12 other Grand Slam titles, may struggle for many years to come in his bid to defeat his nemesis.
Second seed Nadal, who did not drop a set all tournament and has never lost at the clay-court event, matched the feat of Bjorn Borg's four successive wins from 1978-81.
He moved to a 28-0 winning record at the tournament, having won 84 of 92 sets played.
Nadal broke Federer in the opening game of the match, and needed only 32 minutes to wrap up the first set.
Federer fought back in the second, but still succumbed within 50 minutes, and then saw Nadal race through the third set in less than half an hour to clinch a historic victory.
Federer paid for his errors, having made 13 unforced mistakes to two by Nadal by the end of the second set.
By that stage Federer -- who has struggled to reach his usual imperious high standards this year following a debilitating illness -- was kicking the dirt in frustration.
He conceded the match with another long shot, which encapsulated his day, and must now turn his attentions to his beloved Wimbledon next month as he seeks to put behind him the disappointments of the year's two opening Grand Slams.
It was the first time Federer had been whitewashed in a set since 1999 on grass at Queen's in England.
Nadal has now won 11 of their 17 encounters, and 10 of 11 on clay, and will be seeking to continue his rivalry with Federer on his less-favored grass surface at the British event.
He was presented the French Open trophy by six-time winner Borg.
"Sorry for Roger, but to win here is incredible and especially to win this tournament four times," Nadal said.
The 26-year-old Federer had been seeking to become the sixth man to win all four major events.
"I would like to have won more than four games but Rafa has played an incredible tournament and he fully deserves to win," Federer said. "But I'll be back to try again next year and I am looking forward to the rest of this year."
