(CNN Student News) -- April 10, 2014
Stories covered this Thursday include a mass stabbing at a Pennsylvania high school, a recall by the world's largest carmaker, and an examination of how the Civil Rights Act made history 50 years ago. We also continue our coverage of Financial Literacy Month and show you how a British company reinvented a set of wheels.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What images would you choose to incorporate into a video about life in the 1960s? Why?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Fort Hood
2. APR
3. Civil Rights Act of 1964
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What happened yesterday at Franklin Regional Senior High School near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania? What heroic action by a student may have saved another's life?
2. What is the world's largest automaker? How many of its models are affected by its latest recalls? How many cars are being recalled worldwide? What car parts may be affected by this recall?
3. What was the goal of the Civil Rights Act of 1964? According to the report, why were some in Congress opposed to it? What is a filibuster? Who used this strategy to try to kill the bill? Who was the U.S. president who worked to get it passed? How did he accomplish this?
4. What is unique about the bicycle seen in the video that is produced by the Brompton Company? What is innovation? According to one of the company's directors, why is innovation important to a business, even if it was first to market a new product?
Discussion Questions:
1. What images and sounds are often included in memorials for fallen soldiers? How might the appearance of a president, as commander-in-chief, be important to the families of fallen or injured troops?
2. If there were already constitutional amendments addressing civil rights, why do you think that federal civil rights legislation was passed in 1964? How might the country have been different had this law not passed?
3. What homework would you want to do before applying for college financial aid? What kind of information would help you weigh the advantages and disadvantages of each option? If you were in the market for a loan, how would you go about finding one that had a low APR?
4. Why do you think that companies strive to innovate? What companies or businesses would you classify as innovative? Why do you think they have an edge when it comes to innovation?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
