Authorities confiscated an antique gun and some bullets from the home of Charlie Sheen after a search, the actor's divorce attorney said Friday.
Mark Gross told reporters he did not believe that by having the items his client was in violation of a temporary restraining order taken out against Sheen this month. Gross said no drugs were found and police were courteous during the Thursday night search -- a sentiment authorities echoed about the actor.
"Mr. Sheen was very cooperative and we are done," said Los Angeles police spokeswoman Norma Eisenman.
The actor took to Twitter immediately afterward, informing his 2.5 million followers, "the LAPD were AWESOME. Absolute pros! they can protect and serve this Warlock anytime!!! c."
The restraining order was filed March 1 after Sheen's estranged wife, Brooke Mueller, requested it, alleging that he had threatened to kill her.
"I will cut your head off, put it in a box and send it to your mom," Mueller claims that Sheen told her late last month.
The revelations were in a court document that resulted in a court order that removed Sheen's twin boys from his home.
The restraining order states Sheen cannot possess, have, buy or try to buy, receive or try to receive, or in any other way get guns, other firearms or ammunition.
It came to the attention of the Los Angeles police department that Sheen is the registered owner of firearms, Eisenman said, and the search was conducted to see if any firearms or ammunition were in his possession.
A source close to Sheen told CNN the actor knew authorities were coming to search his home for firearms. Sheen told the source that he had no weapons there. His attorney, Gross told reporters that both he and Sheen were aware beforehand that that the search was going to occur, though Gross did not offer specifics as to when he or Sheen were notified.
The attorney said he did not believe Mueller was behind the tip that led to the search.
Warner Bros fired Sheen from the hit sitcom "Two and a Half Men" on Monday after he conducted a long-running rant against the show's producers.
Warner Bros is owned by Time Warner, as is CNN.
CNN's Denise Quan, Douglas Hyde and Scott Thompson contributed to this report
