(CNN Student News) -- October 24, 2014
From science and social studies to civics and seaworthiness, a variety of subjects are covered this Friday on CNN Student News. We discuss a Canadian sergeant-at-arms who's being hailed as a hero. We examine a report on alleged academic fraud at a prominent U.S. university. And we explore the intelligent information gleaned from crash test dummies.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. What European country most recently dropped out of the process to host the 2022 Winter Olympic Games?
2. In what African country, formerly known as Zaire, would you find the Ebola River?
3. What famous landmark in St. Louis, Missouri hasn't been cleaned since it was completed in 1965?
4. Doctors believe the maximum incubation period for the Ebola virus is how many days?
5. What African nation's government said it recently reached a deal with terrorists to free hundreds of kidnapped schoolgirls?
6. What comet, named for an observatory in Australia, hurtled past Mars this week?
7. Drivers at what age are the most likely to have a crash with injuries, according to a new study by the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety?
8. Followers of what religion, the world's third-largest, celebrated the festival of Diwali this week?
9. What is the capital of Canada?
10. What U.S. university is grappling with a scandal allegedly involving thousands of students and academic fraud?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
