(CNN Student News) -- August 28, 2013
Does the suspected use of chemical weapons in Syria cross a 'red line'? On Wednesday, we consider that question and the steps that the U.S. could take in response. We also discuss Chicago's 'Safe Passage' plan to get students to school safely, and we look at how a wildfire could impact San Francisco's water supply. Plus, we mark the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington by sharing 5 Things to Know about the historic event.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What audio and video elements might you include in a news report on an event that took place 50 years ago?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects from today's show:
1. crime against humanity
2. civil rights
3. safe passage
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. If the U.S. launches a strike against Syria, what might the potential targets be?
2. Why were some Chicago students assigned to new schools this year? How is the city addressing the issue of safety as students walk to school?
3. What was the actual name of what is now known as the March on Washington? When did it take place? What was the goal of the march?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion on possible U.S. military action in Syria? What other options might exist for dealing with a potential chemical weapons threat in Syria?
2. How effective do you think that Chicago's "Safe Passage" program will be in protecting students from violence as they go to school? Do you have any additional ideas for ensuring safe passage for students? Explain.
3. Who is John Lewis? What role did he play in the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom? If you could interview Congressman Lewis, what would you want to ask him?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
North America
Chicago; Washington, D.C.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
