After seeing Joseph Gordon-Levitt's "Don Jon" this weekend, it wouldn't be surprising if the already lusted-after actor won new admirers.
But sorry, interested parties: It turns out the 32-year-old is taken.
As Gordon-Levitt revealed to Howard Stern this week on the media personality's Sirius XM radio program, he's been quietly seeing someone who's not in the industry.
"I have a girlfriend, but I tend not to really like to talk about it in public. She is not in show business," he said, adding that they met through "mutual friends."
The reason why Gordon-Levitt hasn't mentioned anything about his love life in the past is because he worries that the public's knowledge of his relationship status would get in the way of his ability to disappear into a character.
"I get up in movies and I play other people. So when the audience is watching me in movies, I don't want them thinking about me, and who I'm dating," Gordon-Levitt said. Plus, the woman he's currently with prefers not to be identified.
Review: 'Don Jon' a dirty-minded romantic comedy
This paramour was probably pleased, then, that Gordon-Levitt stuck to his guns about keeping their relationship quiet as Stern peppered the actor with questions. But we are curious what her thoughts were about his statements on commitment.
Stern was teasing Gordon-Levitt that "Don Jon," a romantic comedy about a guy whose addiction to online porn becomes an issue when he finds the woman of his dreams, was somewhat autobiographical. After all, "Don Jon" is the first feature-length film Gordon-Levitt has both written and directed.
But, the star said, that doesn't mean he drew from his own life to tell the story. "I wouldn't say (that I have an addiction to porn). I've had some sex with women that wasn't so good. I've also had lots of sex that was good," Gordon-Levitt said with a laugh. "The whole story of 'Don Jon' is that he can't connect with anybody."
People can get used to "this one-way satisfaction given by whatever media they consume, be it pornography or television."
When the conversation turned to marriage and long-term commitment, Gordon-Levitt was less definitive.
"I think that I could partner up with somebody -- I don't know who that somebody is -- I could partner up with a woman and commit to, like, 'OK, we're going to raise a family, and that's this project that we're going to stick to for 20-something years.' During that time, if (monogamy) was part of it, and it made sense, I could be sexually monogamous," the actor said.
"After that, once the kids are out of the house, I ... things go so fast, my life changes so much ... who knows if it's the better thing for me or the better thing for her," he continued. "I like to not be too committed to any one future that's really far away, unless there's a reason."
For now, the one commitment he appears to have in his sights is pursuing a career as a feature filmmaker, as well as a thespian. "Don Jon" is currently receiving positive reviews after a strong showing at Sundance earlier this year.
Interestingly enough, if Gordon-Levitt were to celebrate his success with his first film, it doesn't sound like he'd reach for something in the alcohol cabinet.
"Drinking can be fun sometimes, but weed, I certainly do it more often," he candidly told Stern. "I go through phases sometimes where it's every day. It's not every day these days. I pace around and have all sorts of good ideas. I was stoned when I first thought of 'Don Jon' as a comedy. I think it's different for everybody, but certainly the way that I use it, I absolutely think it has a positive effect on my creative process."
"Don Jon," which also stars Scarlett Johansson, Julianne Moore and Tony Danza, is now in theaters.
