Have you ever wondered what on earth your wedding planner or florist was talking about when he or she used the word "dragee" or "grosgrain"?
Before you get started with your planning, read our glossary of wedding terms to see what you need to know and brush up on before your big day. You'll be a wedding expert in no time!
Fondant
A hard frosting made of sugar and water that's mixed together, cooked, and cooled. Like buttercream, it is traditionally used on wedding cakes.
Dragees
Chocolate- and candy-covered almonds that are often served at wedding receptions or given out as favors. In many cultures, they represent fertility!
Place Setting
The table service for a single diner: a napkin, salad fork, dinner fork, dessert fork, service plate or charger, soup bowl, bread-and-butter plate, butter spreader, dinner knife, teaspoon, soup spoon, water goblet, red wine glass, and white wine glass.
Martha Stewart Living: The New Bridal Shower Rules (Toilet Paper Dresses and Awkward Icebreakers Not Included!)
Charger
A large decorative plate that's placed under the dinner plate to bring color and texture to the table.
Tablescape
Another word for table arrangement or centerpiece. It's most often used when each table has multiple components.
Martha Stewart Living: 7 Old-School Wedding Rules You Can Break
Escort Cards
Printed cards that inform guests of what table they'll be seated at. They are typically displayed as guests enter the reception, or at cocktail hour.
Martha Stewart Living: Common Wedding Traditions and Superstitions You've Never Heard Before
Place Cards
Printed cards that are placed at each seat at the reception to let guests know which chair they will be sitting at.
Stationery Suite
A term to describe all of the stationery, including the save-the-dates, invitations, reply cards, reception cards, and any other invitation enclosures.
Martha Stewart Living: 21 Gorgeous Engagement Rings of Real Brides
Vellum
Heavy, transparent paper that is often used as an overlay on wedding invitations. It can also be used for a variety of other things, including these favor boxes.
Martha Stewart Living: Kate Bosworth's Wedding: Behind-the-Scenes Photos
Grosgrain
A silk or silk-like fabric with a ribbed appearance. It's often used in trims, belts, and handle wraps—like the one pictured above.
Martha Stewart Living: Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds Got Married, Their Exclusive Wedding Photos
Dyeables
Shoes or fabric that can be dyed to match a specific color swatch.
Any wedding terms you'd like explained? Let us know in the comments below.
