Israeli troops killed a Palestinian man during clashes Tuesday in a West Bank refugee camp, the latest example of violence and tensions between the two sides.
According to his family, 21-year-old Mohammed Jawabreh was standing on his home's roof watching clashes between the Israeli military and Palestinians below in the Al-Aroub refugee camp when an Israeli soldier shot him dead.
An Israel Defense Forces spokeswoman said that "a Palestinian man aimed an improvised weapon" at troops during a violent riot by about 200 Palestinians.
"The forces immediately responded, opened fire on him, and a hit was confirmed," the military spokeswoman said.
Israeli authorities later determined the improvised device was a homemade gun, she added.
The clashes between the Palestinians and Israeli troops began at the camp's entrance on Saturday morning, according to sources inside the camp.
It was not immediately clear what precipitated the latest violence. Still, tensions between Israeli authorities and Palestinians have been simmering for weeks, including violent incidents in Jerusalem as well as the Palestinian areas of Gaza and the West Bank.
Iran leader's call to 'annihilate' Israel sparks fury as nuclear deadline looms
On Monday, for instance, a 20-year-old Israeli soldier was fatally stabbed in Tel Aviv. Eyewitnesses later led authorities to the suspect, an 18-year-old Palestinian man, hiding on the fourth floor of an apartment building, police spokeswoman Luba Samri said.
And three Israelis were stabbed -- one fatally -- Monday at a hitchhiking post at the Alon Shvut junction in the West Bank, the same place where three Israeli teens were kidnapped and later found dead earlier this year. Those kidnappings spurred an Israeli military campaign targeting Hamas.
On Saturday, Israeli police shot and killed a Palestinian man who attacked police officers with a knife in a village in northern Israel, police said.
Speaking after Monday's latest violence, Israeli President Reuven Rivlin urged his countrymen to unite and ensured them that "security forces ... will not rest until they return normality to our daily lives."
As Rivlin said, "These are difficult days."
2 killed, 2 wounded in stabbing attacks on Israelis
CNN's Kareem Khadder reported from Ramallah, and CNN's Greg Botelho wrote this story from Atlanta. CNN's Michael Schwartz contributed to this report.
