Libertarian-leaning Sen. Rand Paul is the most popular Republican among the crowded list of potential presidential candidates in New Hampshire, according to a new CNN/ORC poll out Monday. The same poll finds that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has a commanding lead among potential Democratic candidates in the Granite State.
The Kentucky senator -- who has made three trips to New Hampshire, the first primary state, in recent months -- garnered 15% of support among registered Republicans and Independents likely to vote in the 2016 Republican primary.
But with a margin of error of 5 percentage points, Paul's lead is negligible. The rest of the crowd is close behind. Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and 2012 Republican vice presidential nominee Rep. Paul Ryan each obtained 10% of support. New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee follow closely along with 9%.
Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal and 2012 Republican candidate Rick Santorum, who have not been as active on the presidential circuit, round out the pack of 12 potential candidates with 3% support.
As for the Democratic race, Clinton has a commanding lead among registered Democrats and Independents likely to vote in the 2016 Democratic primary. Clinton, who made her first trip to Iowa in more than six years over the weekend, had 60% of support in the New Hampshire poll.
New Hampshire Senate race in dead heat
Far behind Clinton are Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Vice President Joe Biden, with 11% and 8% respectively.
On the Republican side, this is the second poll where both Huckabee and Ryan sit near the top of the pack. In a poll CNN conducted in Iowa last week, Huckabee, who has a strong relationship with religious conservatives in Iowa, led with 21% and Ryan registered second with 12%. The rest of the candidates had single-digit support.
CNN's Iowa poll also showed that Clinton had a commanding lead with 53% support among registered Democrats.
Fresh start for Hillary in Iowa or deja vu?
Hillary Clinton stumps for Iowa Democrats, and herself
