(CNN)  -- Caroline Wozniacki has moved within one win of reclaiming her world number one ranking with victory over Japanese qualifier Ayumi Morita in the third round of the Dubai tennis championships.
The Danish top seed eased past her 57-ranked opponent 6-1 6-0 on Thursday and could regain the world number one spot she lost to Australian Open champion Kim Clijsters if she makes the semifinal of the hard-court tournament.
Clijsters -- who chose not to play in the Middle East this week -- leapfrogged 20-year-old Wozniacki into the number one spot when she reached the semifinals of the Paris Open last week, but failed to cement her position when she lost in the final to Petra Kvitova.
Shahar Peer of Israel is now the only obstacle left for Wozniacki to conquer in her bid to regain top spot, after the ninth seed came back from a set down to beat Belgium's Yanina Wickmayer 3-6 6-4 6-1. Wozniacki lost to Peer in last year's tournament.
CNN blog: Can Murray become a grand slam champ?
"I knew how Ayumi was going to play today. She has had a good week so I was really pleased about winning today," Wozniacki told the official WTA website.
"Against Shahar I just need to stay positive and try to play like I did today. If I play well, the ranking will come automatically - for me, I'm just focused on going out there tomorrow and playing my best. That's all I can do."
Meanwhile, number two seed and world number three Vera Zvonareva made a shock exit as she lost to fifteenth seed Alisa Kleybanova.
World number 22 Kleybanova won the all-Russian affair 6-3 6-2, to set up a last four clash with Italian number 11 seed Flavia Pennetta, who overcame Belarussian seventh seed Victoria Azarenka  6-3 6-7(2) 6-4.
Third seed Francesca Schiavone was also an early casualty. The Italian faced Russia's Svetlana Kuznetsova in a repeat of their recent record-breaking encounter in Melbourne, but in a reversal of fortunes it was Kuznetsova who triumphed 1-6 6-0 7-5.
The double grand slam champion and former world number three will next face Polish number nine seed Agnieszka Radwanska, who easily beat former Wimbledon champion Marion Bartoli of France 6-3 6-2.
French Open runner-up Sam Stosur also made the last four after a 6-3 6-4 win over Switzerland's Patti Schnyder. The Australian fourth seed will face sixth seed Jelena Jankovic of Serbia, after she beat Kaia Kanepi of Estonia 2-6 6-3 7-5.
Elsewhere, at the men's ATP Tour event in Marseille, France, second seed and world number six Tomas Berdych made it through to the quarterfinals with a victory over French world number 122 Edouard Roger-Vasselin.
The 2010 Wimbledon finalist will play Croatia's Marin Cilic for a place in the semifinals, after former world number nine defeated Germany's Philipp Petzschner 7-6(3) 6-3.
Russia's Dmitry Tursunov continued his comeback from injury as he defeated the fifth seed, Croatian Ivan Ljubicic, 7-6(4) 6-3.
