Who do you think you are, Internet?
All this complaining and demanding you have been doing lately is making you look even more mouthy and angry than usual. It was bad enough that you exploded over the casting of Ben Affleck as Batman in the upcoming Superman movie, but then you went and started a petition to recast "Fifty Shades of Grey" because Charlie Hunnam and Dakota Johnson just didn't do it for you.
Backlash much?
Now there are screeches about the cast of this season's "Dancing With the Stars." The target of ire this time around is mostly "High School Musical" star Corbin Bleu who has been labeled a "ringer" because he happens to know how to dance thanks to his role as "Chad Danforth" in the aforementioned TV movies and film as well as some time spent on Broadway.
Fans not happy with 'Fifty Shades' casting
To be fair, fellow "DWTS" contestant and "Saved By the Bell" star Elizabeth Berkley has also been targeted for knowing how to dance, though it's almost surely not because of her starring role in the now cult classic "Showgirls."
"It's not fair!" stage producer Brian Howie told RadarOnline.com. "They have the muscle memory about the ways to do this. I think it's dishonest that (the show doesn't) level the playing field."
Could it be that fans are now drunk with power after their successes? Over the years campaigns from the distraught have saved television shows like "Family Guy," "Chuck," "Firefly" and "Friday Night Lights."
These days folks can also vote with their dollars and make things happen. Really missing "Veronica Mars" and wish there was a reunion movie? Kickstarter to the rescue and it is happening. According to that company, 10% of the films at Sundance last year were Kickstarter funded.
Is there a movie you want to see not playing in your town? You can always hop on Tugg and make a showing happen. Couple this with the power of social media, which, because it allows users to share their opinions freely and have massive interaction with others, apparently heightens the sense of influence and power. Before you know it there's a recipe for rebellion.
No place is this more obvious than over on the "50 Shades of Grey" Facebook page.  To say people are unhappy over this Christian Grey/Anastasia Steele casting would be an understatement.
'Fifty Shades': Before Hunnam and Johnson, was there Gosling?
"No chance," wrote Facebook user Olivia Michelle Hooper about Hunnam's casting. "He does not have the right face ... he looks like he belongs in movies like Troy or 300, not as Christian Grey, and he looks a hell of a lot older than 27 (the character's age when the book begins), just saying!"
"They are not right for it," wrote Ashley Taylor of Hunnam and Johnson's casting. "Period, will not be watching the movie."
There are already calls for a boycott of "Fifty Shades" before a scene has even been filmed. The furor caused the film's producer, Dana Brunetti, to feel the need to explain how casting works.
'"There is a lot that goes into casting that isn't just looks," The Daily Mail reported Brunetti as saying. "Talent, availability, their desire to do it, chemistry with the other actor, etc. So if your favorite wasn't cast, then it is most likely due to something on that list. Keep that in mind while hating and keep perspective."
So can you please dial it back a bit, Internet, and perhaps pick and choose your battles? After all, there are brand new "American Idol" judges to be criticized and Miley Cyrus is sure to twerk again. You know, the important stuff.
