Australian spin king Shane Warne suffered a losing return to cricket on Saturday as he was upstaged in the Melbourne Stars' opening Big Bash League defeat by Sydney Thunder.
Playing in his home city of Melbourne for the first time in five years, the 42-year-old conceded 19 runs from his two overs as David Warner smashed 102 from just 51 balls to give Sydney a six-wicket win with six deliveries to spare.
Warner, who scored his maiden Test century in Australia's recent defeat by New Zealand, smashed Warne over the boundary ropes twice as he hit six sixes in a successful chase to overhaul the Stars' 153-7 from 20 overs.
"Didn't go to plan for us tonight but hey it's only the first game. We will bounce back -- well played David Warner, looking forward to Brisbane," Warne wrote on Twitter ahead of Tuesday's match against the Heat.
Warne retired from international cricket in 2007 but played in the Indian Premier League until earlier this year.
He went into the match under an injury cloud after burning his hand while cooking, but was boosted when his partner, actress and model Elizabeth Hurley, performed the pre-game toss of the coin.
She accompanied her son Damian and Warne's children Brooke, Summer and Jackson in the middle of the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
However, it was downhill from there for Warne as the Stars lost the toss and struggled after batting first.
David Hussey top-scored with 52 as Warne was not required to bat, then Warner took center stage as he scored more than half his team's runs.
Meanwhile, South Africa crushed Sri Lanka by an innings and 81 runs in the first Test in Centurion on Saturday.
Vernon Philander claimed his second five-wicket haul of the match to finish with figures of 10-102 as the tourists were bowled out for 150 in their second innings before tea on day three.
Wicketkeeper Mark Boucher claimed six catches as he matched the national record for the fourth time.
Sri Lanka trailed by 231 runs after the first innings, and slumped to 38-4 before lunch.
