Meet Heidi Klum: supermodel. Reality-show host. Danger to Web users everywhere.
That's according to an annual list from Web security company McAfee, which ranks the year's "Most Dangerous Celebrities" online.
The list is based on the likelihood that spammers, scammers or other ne'er-do-well residents of the Internet will use each celebrity's name to lure unsuspecting clickers to sites that host viruses and other malicious software.
"While slightly safer than last year, searching for top celebrities continues to generate risky results," said Paula Greve, director of Web security research at McAfee. "Consumers should be particularly aware of malicious content hiding in 'tiny' places like shortened URLs that can spread virally in social networking sites or through e-mails and text messages from friends."
Klum, a former Victoria's Secret model who produces and hosts "Project Runway," replaces last year's No. 1 celebrity, Cameron Diaz. According to McAfee, searching for Klum's name yields a nearly 1-in-10 chance of hitting a link that leads to a malicious site.
Diaz slipped to second while, in what can only be called a surprise performance, CNN's own Piers Morgan (also a judge on "America's Got Talent") snagged the No. 3 spot.
In addition to spurring questions about how he landed amongst a bevy of models and actresses, Morgan is the only man to make the top 10 list other than Brad Pitt, who barely made it in a three-way tie for 10th with Emma Stone and Rachel McAdams.
Rounding out the top 10 were actresses Jessica Biel, Katherine Heigl, Mila Kunis, Anna Paquin and Scarlett Johansson and Victoria's Secret model (we're seeing a trend here) Adriana Lima.
According to McAfee, sports stars and singers are a safer search than actors and models. Tennis stars Maria Sharapova and Andy Roddick, who came in at Nos. 13 and 14 last year, respectively, dropped to 44th and 56th on this year's list.
Justin Bieber tallied only a 49th-place finish (tweens rejoice!), and Lady Gaga came in at No. 58.
