Former world champion racing driver Michael Schumacher, who suffered severe head injuries in a weekend skiing accident in France, remained in stable condition Wednesday, his manager said.
Sabine Kehm said Schumacher had been carefully supervised overnight.
"His condition remains stable overnight and this morning," she said.
"This is the good news -- however I don't want to go into any further prospects because it's much too early, as the doctors said yesterday," she said.
Doctors treating Schumacher at the University Hospital Center of Grenoble will not give a news conference unless there is a significant change in his condition, she said.
"We are still in a critical situation," she said. Schumacher remains in an artificially induced coma.
On Monday night, doctors carried out a surgical intervention that relieved some pressure on Schumacher's brain.
The surgery, which took about two hours, involved the removal of a large hematoma, the head of anesthesiology, Jean-Francois Payen, said Tuesday.
Schumacher, the most successful driver in Formula 1 history, suffered severe head trauma after falling while skiing Sunday in Meribel, in the French Alps.
Kehm recounted more details Tuesday of how the accident happened, gleaned from Schumacher's son and friends who were skiing with him.
The party was in an area of deep snow when Schumacher helped a friend who had fallen, she said. As he set off again and went to make a turn, he seems to have hit a rock hidden under the snow.
This catapulted him into the air and he fell head down with all his weight onto another rock, she said, resulting in severe injuries to his head. He was not traveling fast at the time, she added.
In a statement released Tuesday, Schumacher's family expressed thanks for the outpouring of support from people around the world.
"They are giving us great support. We all know he is a fighter and will not give up," the statement said.
Schumacher, who turns 45 Friday, won a record seven world titles in his spectacular Formula 1 career.
CNN's Saskya Vandoorne contributed to this report.
