Granddaughter of Thor Heyerdahl, Josian will join the Plastiki during the voyage. The 26-year-old scientist thinks she will miss a hot shower while aboard but is thrilled by the prospect of the unknown on the adventure. Read her answers to our questionnaire, below.
CNN: What did you want to be when you were young?
Heyerdahl: Biologist and theatre costume designer.
CNN: What's the one characteristic that has led you to where you are today?
Heyerdahl: Curiosity
CNN: Who inspires you?
Heyerdahl: Sylvia Earle, my grandfather Thor Heyerdahl and grandmother Liv Rockefeller
CNN: What's the most important lesson you've learned about yourself from the Plastiki project?
Heyerdahl: Believe in dreams.
CNN: What's your biggest hope for the expedition?
Heyerdahl: To have exciting sightings of the marine life that I hope to be a part of saving.
CNN: At what point would you define the Plastiki a success?
Heyerdahl: The Plastiki is a journey of exploration and storytelling. The continual spread of the Plastiki's message about using waste as a resource and the problem of plastic ocean pollution will be its success.
CNN: What is your favorite sea creature?
Heyerdahl: Sea dragon and manta ray.
CNN: When is the last time you personally used a plastic bottle?
Heyerdahl: I can't remember.
CNN: What do you most value about nature?
Heyerdahl: Symbiotic relationships, speciation and adaptation for survival.
CNN: What's the one creature comfort you'll miss most when you're at sea?
Heyerdahl: Hot, fresh water shower.
CNN: Name three books you will bring with you on the expedition.
Heyerdahl: Not sure yet, I will have to tell you just before I leave.
CNN: If you had to choose a theme song for the expedition, what would it be?
Heyerdahl: "Love like a Sunset" by Phoenix.
CNN: What's your favorite adventure film / book?
Heyerdahl: Alice in Wonderland.
CNN: What's your green motto?
Heyerdahl: The planet's resources are finite.
CNN: What's the main emotion you're feeling right now days before the launch?
Heyerdahl: Excitement for the unknown.
CNN: What's your biggest fear for the expedition?
Heyerdahl: Getting caught in a storm and what that will be like.
CNN: What's the first thing you'll do when you reach Sydney?
Heyerdahl: Kiss the ground and drink champagne!
