The CW's '80s-set "Sex and the City" prequel doesn't premiere until January, but series star AnnaSophia Robb has already proved she's every bit as stylish as her character.
Robb, who plays teenager Carrie Bradshaw on "The Carrie Diaries," said New York Fashion Week "was an incredible introduction to the fashion world," as she prepares to fill the iconic character's Manolos.
Despite a shared emphasis on fashion, however, Robb said the show is very different from "Sex and the City," which featured Sarah Jessica Parker as Bradshaw for six seasons and two films.
Fashions from 'The Vampire Diaries'
For some fans of the HBO series, that'll be evident upon meeting Carrie's younger sister Dorrit, played by 14-year-old Stefania Owen.
"The stuff with Dorrit is always so much fun ... for me because I don't have siblings so it's kind of nice to just pretend," Robb said.
The actress said she's known her on-screen sister and her family since filming 2007's "Bridge to Terabithia" in New Zealand with Owen's sister Carly.
Outfitting 'Gossip Girl'
"(Owen's) wardrobe on the show is so much fun," Robb said. "It's so different from Carrie's. She wears these fantastic creepers, which I never knew existed."
Costume designer Eric Daman, who has worked on "Sex and the City" and "Gossip Girl," outfits the characters in the new series with "neon and big poofy skirts and shoulder pads," Robb said. "It will be a very colorful show."
Of course it helps that some of the trends from the '80s are back in style now.
Styles from 'Scandal'
"Eric, when we were filming, he was going, 'Oh it's so fantastic that everything that's emerging is very '80s' because it's easy for them to pull clothes," Robb said. "They have to dress all the background ... and the city. So to be able to have those resources is awesome."
One specific piece viewers can look out for on the show is the "Carrie bag."
Carrie's purse is a really important piece, Robb said, noting that there's a chance similar bags will be available to the public one day.
Inside the closet for 'Pretty Little Liars'
"I hope so," she said. "I love it. I don't have one, but one of the producers does."
Robb's character has, however, influenced the actress' personal style in other ways.
"I'm becoming a little more bold with what I wear," she said, adding, she's learning "just to have more fun. Fashion is an expression of yourself."
Designing for 'Revenge'
