(InStyle.com) -- Singer Carrie Underwood dishes on dieting, beauty and fashion.
Carrie Underwood in a Michael Kors wool crêpe dress and Kenneth Jay Lane link bracelet.
1. Always look the part
Most of the time I slap on some makeup in the morning so I don't look bad if somebody snaps a picture. Somebody, somewhere, will catch you, even if it's a fan at the grocery store. Very rarely do I go out without makeup.
2. Keep a food diary
I'm OCD like that. I count calories, fat and fiber--which is important in making you feel fuller faster--and protein, especially when I'm working out.  Watch how Carrie handles romantic distress »
3. Don't be a dairy queen
Cheese is ruining my life! I'm trying to talk myself into being lactose-intolerant. I mean, it's basically moldy milk, and it doesn't smell that great--but it's so good! Oh, jeez, I'm thinking about it now...
4. Exercise your options
Always take an hour for yourself to go do something positive. I like the elliptical machine or swimming if I'm in a hotel with a decent pool and there aren't too many people there. I also do the treadmill, free weights, exercise ball. If it's a nice day, outdoor activity is nice. I get a bike and ride around. Plus, I get a decent cardio workout every night onstage.
5. Don't break the bank
I don't buy expensive jewelry and fur coats and Escalades. I've never bought a car in my life. The car I have, a Ford Mustang convertible, is the one I won on Idol--I guess I need to go buy a new car after all!
6. Smell yummy
I don't do smelly soaps or wear perfume, so lotion is kind of my perfume. My favorite body lotion is Benefit's Maybe Baby. It's got a little shimmer in it. If I'm dressing up I might use perfume. I have a couple by Anna Sui. And Gwen Stefani's perfume [L], is good too.
7. Be a girlie girl
With makeup I think it's important for girls to play. I mix a lot. I'll put on lip gloss and go, "That needs to shimmer." So I'll put something shimmery on top. Then I want it a little pinker, so I put pink on top. But it all comes together. I'm trying to lay off the black eyeliner, though--I love it a little too much.
8. Go with the flow
I tend to go after bigger, flowy tops or dresses. I know I'm doing myself a disservice, but I'd rather put on a muumuu and have people at least think there might be a skinny person underneath than put on something tight and have them think, Look at that gut!
9. Laugh at yourself
Usually I come up through the floor to get to the stage. I can't stand up on the little platform or the audience will see me, so I'm squatting down with my rear end pressed up against the back of it. I just laugh because the audience thinks this is so glamorous--and here I am under the stage with these ropes and equipment, my butt pressed against plastic! E-mail to a friend
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2009 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
