(CNN)Naya Rivera can't help but turn heads, and it's not just the Glee star's singing, dancing and eye-catching outfits.
Sometimes it's what comes out of her mouth, like her recent comments on "The View" about white people bathing too much.
Regardless of how much you shower, Naya Rivera is the gift that keeps giving to celebrity watchers like ourselves. In light of her latest comments, we thought it high time to take a look at five provocative things that Rivera -- at the tender age of 28 -- has already said in a short but outspoken lifetime.
White people shower a lot.
"I think that white people shower a lot more than ethnic," said Rivera, who was a guest host on the Tuesday edition of "The View." "I feel like showering more than once a day or every day is such a white people thing."
"My mom is half black, half Puerto Rican. She showers every day, so I can say this." And her husband, who is white? He often showers several times per day.
Case closed!
Not so fast. Rivera apologized for any offense she caused the next day on "The View."
Kim Kardashian: Lay off the nude photo shoots!
"I normally don't. But... you're someone's mother..." said Rivera, posting on Instagram. The "you" is the famous for not-doing-much Kim Kardashian, who had posed au natural for Paper magazine. Faced with a backlash from lovers of all things Kardashian, Rivera—who can actually sing and dance and act—apologized via Instagram.
Both men and women like her a lot.
Rivera became something of a sexy lesbian icon for her generation when Santana, her character on Glee, finally came out about her relationship with fellow student Brittany (played by Heather Morris).
"Getting hit on by both genders is such a champagne problem," she said. Even though she's newly married (to a man), we're happy she understands the compliment.
True love conquers not so true love.
Rivera married longtime friend and fellow actor Ryan Dorsey last summer, a scant three months after she and rapper Big Sean called off their engagement.
"We feel truly blessed to be joined as husband and wife," the Dorseys told Us Weekly. "Our special day was fated and everything we could have ever asked for. True love always prevails."
We hope so.
Don't mess with my man.
It's all female best friends for Rivera and all male best friends for her new husband, Rivera told members of the "The View" in November. Mary J. Blige had made the case for same-sex friends, and Rivera agreed.
"I feel like you're playing with fire and opening up the floodgates here, and you're having issues in your marriage, but someone is going to talk to the opposite sex to get advice or whatever and you should be talking to your partner," she said. "So I don't believe in it."
