Rep. Paul Ryan, the 2012 Republican vice presidential nominee, regularly gets asked about his political ambitions, and he made one part of his future clear Thursday: In 10 years, he won't be in Congress.
After already serving 16 years in Congress, the 44-year-old policy wonk told National Journal he wants to head the House's top tax and entitlement committee, have an impact and then get out.
"I've already been there 16 years. I don't want to be a career guy. Even though I've been there a long time, where you could already say that," Ryan said in the National Journal profile published Thursday, adding "It's just, I don't want to spend my adult life in Congress."
Instead Ryan says he wants to serve a six-year term as chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and leave to pursue another career.
"I want to be an impactful member of Congress. I want to make a big difference. But then I want to leave and go do something else," he said.
Despite efforts to recruit him for a 2016 bid, Ryan doesn't seem prepared to pursue a presidential campaign either, though he wouldn't rule out a bid altogether.
"The president thing, it doesn't have to be me," Ryan says with a shrug. "I just want us to win. I just want to get these policies passed."
But he's not excited about the current crop of likely GOP presidential contenders -- a field that includes New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz among others.
Ryan said he would support another run by the man who picked him as his 2012 running mate, Mitt Romney, but Ryan said the former 2012 nominee "has zero plans of doing that." And he would also support a bid from former Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels, whom Ryan strongly lobbied to run in 2012.
"But other than Mitt and Mitch, there's not a—," Ryan said, stopping himself.
The reporter notes that he was about to say he's not excited about the current crop.
"That's why I stopped myself," Ryan replied.
That lack of excitement might be what is keeping Ryan from silencing 2016 speculators once and for all, though Ryan said he doesn't see himself as a "savior" in the way that some politicians with presidential ambitions view themselves.
But Ryan does say he knows he "could do the job."
