(CNN)  -- If you think this is the year George Clooney will finally settle down, don't hold your breath.
In an interview airing on Friday's "Piers Morgan Tonight," he told both Morgan and his own father that his one marriage, to actress Talia Balsam that ended in 1993, was enough.
Morgan pointed out that George's father, Nick, who appeared on the show with him, had "one of the great marriages." Nick Clooney has been married to his wife, Nina -- George's mother -- for more than 50 years. Morgan asked whether, as a parent, Nick was "yearning for the moment" his son would walk down the aisle.
Nick Clooney turned to his son and said, "I want you to think about that. I want you to think about -- we've been married -- Nina and I've been married 51 years."
"I hate to blow your whole news story," said the younger Clooney, "but I was married, so I gave it a shot."
Clooney said the "shot" he gave marriage ought to have "proven how good I was at it."
Clooney also said his dad taught him that he has an inherent responsibility to share his luck and good fortune with others. Clooney said his father urged him "to help look out for people that are less fortunate than you and to challenge people that are in power."
Clooney also said his career luck came late and pointed out that his acting successes came relatively late.
"I did eight television series before "ER" hit and if we didn't get a Thursday night at 10 o'clock time slot, you know, I wouldn't have the career that I have."
When Morgan asked Clooney if he was considering following in the footsteps of other Hollywood A-listers who ventured into the political arena, the actor dashed any hopes of a President George Clooney: "Honestly, my job is as good as they get."
"I think that I am best suited as an advocate for issues," said Clooney. "And I look to people who are far smarter and far better at this than I am to lead."
His primary issue now is the situation in Sudan. Earlier this month, Clooney continued his ongoing humanitarian efforts to shed light on deadly violence in the troubled border area of Abyei. Clooney was a firsthand witness to the voting process that will most likely lead to independence for Southern Sudan.
Clooney also told Morgan he contracted malaria while in Sudan, but said he's no longer infected with the disease, and even made light of the situation, saying, "Even with malaria, it's just good fun." Clooney, who has been infected with malaria twice, joked, "I guess the mosquito in Juba looked at me and thought I was the bar."
When Morgan asked whether Clooney gets angry when people say he's wasting his time in Sudan and that his charity work is for "self-aggrandizing reasons," Clooney told Morgan, "I don't need to be more famous."
"I've got all the attention I need," Clooney continued, "and I'm just trying to use that attention on other people."
Watch Piers Morgan Tonight weeknights 9 p.m. ET. For the latest from Piers Morgan click here.
