Despite the ribbing he took from President Barack Obama and comedian Seth Meyers, media mogul Donald Trump proclaimed Saturday night's White House Correspondents Dinner "an entertaining evening."
Trump, who has indicated that he is considering a run for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination, was the focus of many of the barbs thrown by Obama and head "Saturday Night Live" writer Meyers.
In Washington, Trump still talk of town
"They were pretty personal, but I expected that I was going to be zinged," Trump told CNN's Don Lemon on Sunday night.
At one point in the presentation, Obama singled out an unsmiling Trump and credited him with making hard decisions -- such as firing Gary Busey over Meat Loaf on an episode of "The Celebrity Apprentice" -- and succeeding in his push for the president to release his long-form birth certificate.
"Now, he can focus on more important matters like, did we fake the moon landing? What really happened in Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?" Obama said, referring to Neil Armstrong's 1969 walk on the moon, the alleged UFO crash in New Mexico and the deaths of rappers Biggie Smalls and Tupac Shakur.
But appearances aside, Trump had nothing but good things to say about Obama's comedic timing, telling CNN that "some of what the president did was pretty good."
"It's my honor," he added, referring to the amount of jokes directed at him. "It was a lion's pit, I was walking into it, I've been there before, and you know, I thought it was an entertaining evening."
He had less kind words for Meyers, however, calling his performance "poor."
"I thought that Seth had a hard time getting the words out," he said.
Trump has not formally announced a run for the presidential nomination, saying it would be inappropriate to do so while his reality show "Celebrity Apprentice" is airing.
Trump a serious contender?
He said Sunday that he is giving it "very, very serious thought," and an announcement will be made before June.
"I think a lot of people will be very happy with my announcement," he told Lemon.
Watch CNN Newsroom weekdays 9am to 3pm ET and weekends. For the latest from the CNN Newsroom click here.
