With its wonky arguments about taxes and health care, Wednesday's presidential debate may not have been the most riveting 90 minutes of the 2012 campaign.
But the faceoff between President Obama and GOP challenger Mitt Romney produced no shortage of humor on Twitter, where observers cracked jokes about everything from Romney's perceived swipe at "Sesame Street's" Big Bird to Jim Lehrer's passive moderating style.
By the end of the debate, both @FiredBigBird and @SilentJimLehrer were newly minted Twitter accounts with thousands of followers. And Twitter reported 10.3 million tweets during the debate, making it "the most tweeted-about event in U.S. politics."
But many people on Twitter just thought the debate was boring.
Here are 25 of our favorite debate-related tweets:
W. Kamau Bell ‏-- The media is promoting the #debates like a full on sports event. People are going to be real disappointed when it's just 2 dudes talking.
Linnéa Sandström ‏-- Romney has a bigger US flag pin than Obama. The debate is over? #debates
Storify: Jim Lehrer, the silent moderator
Sarah Littman ‏-- Mitt: "I like coal" Poor people will find it in their stockings if I am President. #debates
Rachel Lichtman -- So far the only Zingers are in Chris Christie's glove compartment. #debates
Todd Barry ‏-- These guys are both feeding off the energy of the crowd. #debates
Marc Lombardi ‏-- The debate would be much more interesting & informative if a buzzer went off every time an untrue statement was made. #debates
Kathleen Madigan -- So far, this is as exciting as lunesta. Which I love. #mockthevote
Aaron Blitzstein ‏-- "It's time for my second question." - Jim Lehrer at 3pm tomorrow
Indecision ‏-- This campaign to re-elect Bill Clinton is going really well. #debates
Storify: Big Bird and the presidential debate
Kristi Harrison ‏-- I have to admit they're both pretty handsome. I'm waiting for the swimsuit competition to decide. #debates
Fired Big Bird -- Somewhere Paul Ryan is kicking over trash cans in hopes of smoking out Oscar the Grouch
Jim Sterling ‏-- Obama is winning in the "Looking amazingly condescending when the other guy talks" race. #debates
Danny Sullivan ‏-- Sorry, that was Obama spending five seconds arguing that he's owed five more seconds to argue #debates
Phil Plait ‏-- After reading all the variations of the debate drinking games, I have decided to simply remove my liver and set it on fire.
Mo Mandel ‏-- This is the worst SNL skit of all time. #debates
Tara Ariano ‏-- Frankly, neither candidate is working hard enough to land the immigrant feminist small business owner non-voting socialist vote. #debate
Big Bird Romney -- If you don't vote Obama, Mitt Romney is going to be eating me by the end of November. Show your support. #BigBird2012
Dave Weigel -- This is like watching a tax law professor debate an investment advice infomercial host
Silent Jim Lehrer -- ...I...so, I...guys...
Patton Oswalt ‏-- Hey Obama -- TRAIN WITH HILLARY. This is ROCKY III and she's your Apollo Creed. #eyeofthetiger
Nisha Chittal ‏-- where is the orchestra from the Emmys when you need them! #debates
Crystal Bruce -- Whoever dances off stage horse riding style to Open Gangnam --- wins! #debates2012
Doug Benson -- 14 minutes until we can all go back to preferring the candidate we liked when the debate started. #debate
Dennis Miller Show ‏-- Obama better hope a Kicked A** is covered under Obamacare
Are You Italian? ‏-- The debates in my house are much louder. #2012debate
CNN's Doug Gross and Heather Kelly contributed to this story.
