(CNN Student News) -- January 6, 2014
Happy New Year, and welcome back to CNN Student News! Our first show of 2014 kicks off much like the year itself, with views of fireworks from around the world. We also bring students up to speed on other stories making headlines, from an Arctic blast to a mystery involving eagles. And we take a look at what's ahead for the U.S. Congress.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What information might audiences get from news reports that look ahead? What challenges might exist to producing this kind of report?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. sea ice
2. unemployment benefits
3. West Nile virus
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. According to the report, how can ships get stuck in sea ice? How do icebreakers work?
2. What are some of the issues facing the U.S. Congress as its members head back into session this week?
3. What do scientists believe is responsible for the deaths of dozens of bald eagles in Utah? How did the scientists come to this conclusion?
Discussion Questions:
1. How do you mark the start of a new year? Do you resolve to do anything better or differently? Explain.
2. What issue(s) would you like to see your U.S. senator or representative make the top priority this session? Why?
3. What general steps do you think that scientists might take to determine what is causing a plant or animal species to die out? Why might they choose to rule out possible causes first?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
