(CNN Student News) -- February 26, 2014
From a report in the Venezuelan capital, CNN Student News brings you two very different views of the country's government. We also look at the pros and cons of a U.S. government proposal regarding food ads in schools, and we examine how a 12-year-old's invention with LEGOs could change the world.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What sources would you consult for credible information about a country's government?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. "Day of the Barricades"
2. distracted driving
3. Braille
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What was the "Day of the Barricades" in Venezuela? Why are some in the country protesting against President Maduro's government? What kind of government does Venezuela have? How has the president responded to the protests?
2. What rules regarding food advertising in schools are being proposed by First Lady Michelle Obama and the Department of Agriculture? According to the video: What is the reasoning behind this proposal? How has the American Beverage Association, which represents several large soft drink brands, responded to it? What do critics say about the proposal?
3. What is Google Glass? Why are lawmakers in several states considering banning Google Glass for drivers? How has Google responded?
4. What did Shubham Banerjee invent using LEGOs and some other materials? In addition to the fact that it's built using LEGOs, what sets his invention apart?
5. To what extreme measure did the International School of Beijing go to allow its students to have a place to play? Why did the school do this? How much did the dome cost? How do officials ensure that the air inside the dome is clean?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that the Venezuelan government's move towards socialism is so polarizing? What impact might this form of government have on different groups of people?
2. Do you think a federal government ban on public school ads for certain foods is a good idea? Explain. How might a ban on these foods impact schools and students? What role, if any, do you believe that schools should play in their students' eating habits?
3. If you were a legislator, would you vote to restrict or ban the use of Google Glass for drivers? Why or why not? What arguments would you anticipate from your opposition?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
