Substitute Victor Obinna came off the bench to score twice as Nigeria beat Kenya 3-0 in Abuja, to claim their first victory in African World Cup qualifying Group B.
Obinna scored a late second-half double to help Nigeria cruise to a 3-0 home victory over Kenya.
The Inter Milan striker scored twice in the last 17 minutes, including one from the penalty spot, after Getafe's Ikechukwu Uche had given the Super Eagles as early lead.
The result sees Nigeria move up to second place in the table with four points from their two games, two points behind leaders Tunisia who beat Mozambique 2-0 on Saturday to have maximum points from their two matches.
Kenya are bottom of the table, without a point, and it already looks like Tunisia and Nigeria will battle it out for top spot in the group and automatic qualification for the World Cup finals.
Elsewhere in Africa, Cameroon are surprisingly bottom of Group A after a 0-0 home draw with Morocco in Yaounde.
The two group favorites cancelled each other out, meaning they both have a point apiece from their two matches.
Gabon are the shock group leaders -- and they followed up their opening victory in Morocco by thumping an Emmanuel Adebayor-led Togo 3-0 in Libreville on Saturday. That result means Gabon are on six points, with Togo second on three points.
Meanwhile, in Group E, Ivory Coast made it two wins from two matches to go top of the group with a 2-1 victory in Guinea.
Sevilla midfielder Christian Koffi Ndri scored the winning goal with 13 minutes remaining as Ivory Coast joined Burkina Faso on a maximum six points.
The two teams already look to have the group between them, as Guinea and Malawi are both point-less from their two matches. Malawi lost 1-0 at home to Burkina Faso on Saturday.
African champions Egypt prop up Group C after crashing 3-1 in Algeria where Karim Matmour (60), Abdelkader Ghezzal (64) and Rafik Djebbour (77) were on target for the hosts.
Algeria top their section on goal difference from Zambia after their weekend success in front of a sell-out crowd.
Ghana, who reached their first World Cup finals in Germany three years ago, won 2-0 at Mali and lead Group D by three points from Benin. Kwadwo Asamoah and Matthew Amoah were on target.
