The deep financial mess at the U.S. Postal Service has revealed a deep fault line in America about whether we even need the postal system.
This week we heard from the "let 'em shut down, I do all my communicating online" group. And there are those who want to "save the art of writing a letter by hand and mailing it."
We're going to get beyond this divide, right here, right now, with a real-life love story that gets to its destination, as most love stories do, through a route that's never been traveled before.
The letter
Our love story begins with a guy in a rush.
"Gimme a ticket for an aer-o-plane.
Ain't got time to take a fast train.
Lonely days are gone.
I'm a-goin' home."
Why is this guy in such a hurry?
"My baby just-a wrote me a letter."
The letter. That's why.
His baby didn't send him an e-mail.
She wrote him a letter. By hand. Put it in an envelope.
Found a stamp buried in her drawer. Took it to a mailbox. Double checked, I'm sure, to make sure it dropped in all the way.
"The Letter," performed by The Box Tops, Joe Cocker and other artists, is one of the 500 most popular American songs.
To get to the bottom of the story, I made a long distance phone call to Wayne Carson, the man who wrote "The Letter."
The back story
I asked Carson if he could imagine the guy in his song rushing to the airport -- paying full fare to get home to his baby, who seems to have sent him packing -- if she had sent an e-mail or a tweet.
He says he never thought of it. He wrote the song in 1967.
Who was the guy, I asked. Was it you?
No.
"My dad was in show business for 50 years," Carson tells me. "He fancied himself as a songwriter. Never wrote a hit. He would get into the story. He didn't know when to quit. By the time he got the story told he had four or five pages. He didn't have a song. He had a short story."
Carson's father handed him one of those "short stories" called "Her Last Letter" and told him to see if he could do something with it.
There was one phrase in there that stuck in Carson's mind that he'd one day come back to. Halfway down the third page. The phrase was "Ticket for an aer-o-plane."
And that's the way aer-o-plane was spelled.
One day, in his small kitchen, Carson swiveled his chair to his pump organ and just banged out the melody and the lyrics in one take. "I just put the words together as they came to me. All because of that one word, aer-o-plane, that my dad wrote in the middle of that damn story." Just a songwriter in the zone.
The plot gets hot
One more question for Carson.
"Do you have a favorite among all the songs you've written? "
"My favorite song," he says, "is always the last one I wrote. ... I don't have a favorite kid or dog. I have a favorite wife. But then again she's the last one I married."
Uh oh. I guess I have a couple more questions.
How many times have you been married, Wayne?
Three, he tells me. His first wife died too young. His second marriage didn't work out. But this marriage...
"What brought us together was songwriting. We wrote two songs together before we actually met in person."
They did not, if you're wondering, send their lyrics back and forth through the mail.
They had a friend in common, a Nashville guitarist, who was the intermediary. The messenger.
And then, one night, after one of Carson's shows, a woman comes up to him and says she has a song she'd like him to look at.
"Oh no," he said. "Not another one."
And then she told him. Her name was Wyndi. Wyndi Harp. The woman he'd been writing songs with.
They kept in touch. "One morning," says Harp, "he called me up and said, 'Would you like to do some writing today?' "
They'd ride around for hours in Carson's blue-green Oldsmobile Silhouette minivan just writing songs. Any car can be romantic when you're making music together. Harp comes up with some priceless titles.
"My Baby's been Fiddlin' With a Brand New Bow." That was one of their first together.
"Free Me When You Go."
"I'm Not Really Talkin', It's Just My Heart Thinkin' Out Loud."
Carson and Harp have been married 14 years now. And writing songs together for longer than that.
Delivery
Now, the final, final question. Have Carson and Harp ever gone to a mailbox and sent each other a letter?
"We've never written each other a letter," says Carson, "because we've never really been apart that long since we met. ... Two weeks was about as long as I could stand to be away from her."
There's a song there.
The opinions in this commentary are solely those of Michael Schulder.
