It should come to no surprise that Jim Messina, one of the masterminds behind President Obama's successful presidential campaigns, is ready for Hillary Clinton in 2016, but he also has a few Republicans he hopes will throw their hats in the ring.
In an interview with Ozy's CEO Carlos Watson, Messina jokes that he's "really rooting hard" for Tea Party favorite Sarah Palin, before pledging his support behind Sens. Rand Paul and Ted Cruz. The full interview will publish on Ozy.com on Wednesday.
As the co-chairman of Priorities USA Action, a super PAC already anticipating Hillary Clinton's run, Messina said a Clinton and Cruz race would be a "wonderful gift" for him.
Get ready: 2016 starts now
When asked about Rand Paul's chances of securing the Republican nomination, Messina thought it was a far cry from reality.
"I think if you look at his statements and you look at his record he would be the most right wing candidate that any major party has nominated ... He is that far off the spectrum," he said. "I think his chances of winning swing votes in battleground states are my chances of being the starting quarterback of the Denver Broncos."
GOP 2016 hopefuls weigh in on midterm results
Messina thinks the Republican tide that overtook the Senate last week isn't a paved path for them to get to the White House in two years. Obama's former chief of staff thinks the party will destroy its own chances of winning in 2016.
"They are having a fight for the soul of their party, which I think is going to be devastating to them," he said.
"If you look at the battleground states, more states are coming on the map for us. States that weren't competitive like Virginia, like North Carolina, Arizona's going to come in '16. I think [Clinton's] a good candidate in some of these places and can make Georgia competitive."
2014: Did Hillary Clinton get her grove back despite Democrats' loss
Georgia has stayed a deep red state for decades, but Messina thinks Clinton has a chance if she manages to get white women, Latinos, and African Americans to the polls. More spending in the state can also play a decisive role.
"Barack Obama didn't spend a single dollar in Georgia either time and got 45 and 46 percent. And if you just look at the demographics -- I'm a math geek, right, I love data -- and data says that Georgia is going to make the same move that North Carolina made."
