Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, in the span of a few months, has gone from saying she is not thinking about running for president to telling an audience in Mexico on Friday that she will make her presidential decision around the first of 2015.
"I am going to be making a decision around, probably after the first of the year about whether I am going to run again."
Clinton said that in order to run, she "will have to be convinced that I have a very clear vision with an agenda of what I think needs to be done."
"Obviously, I'm thinking about it, but I have not made a decision yet," Clinton said during an event for Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim's foundation.
She added that she has a "unique vantage point and set of experiences about what makes the United States operate well and what doesn't and what a president can do and should be doing."
Clinton's position on 2016 has noticeably changed since the start of 2014.
Henry Kissinger loves joking about Hillary Clinton 2016
In January, the former secretary of state said in New Orleans that she was not thinking about running for president and was "trying to get other people not to think about it."
Since publishing her memoir in June and traveling the country, Clinton has become more forthright with her presidential ambitions and has told audiences that she is thinking about running for president.
Glenn Beck: Hillary Clinton 'will be the next president'
The former first lady has also began to step out further on the political scene.
Ahead of the 2014 midterms, Clinton has agreed to do events for a host of Democratic committees and groups and even did a robocall ad for Gov. Andrew Cuomo and lieutenant governor candidate Kathy Hochul.
"I'm calling to urge you to vote for Andrew Cuomo for governor and his running mate, Kathy Hochul, for lieutenant governor in Tuesday's Democratic primary," Clinton, herself a former New York senator, says in the call. "As a New Yorker, I'd be proud to have Kathy fighting for our state."
Hillary Clinton to court Democratic women in September
Clinton's endorsement goes against the more progressive Zephyr Teachout, who is challenging Cuomo in the Democratic primary slated next week.
"This is evidence that Cuomo knows he's in trouble," said Mike Boland, the Teachout campaign manager. "We're on the verge of a historic upset."
