Portions of a taxpayer-funded $2.1 billion Pentagon contract to truck supplies  to U.S. troops in Afghanistan are being indirectly paid  to Afghan insurgents and corrupt public officials as protection money,  a congressional investigation revealed.
The U.S military outsources  much of the security for truck convoys carrying food, water, equipment, fuel and  ammunition to remote and dangerous areas in Afghanistan, and those contractors  hire local Afghans who pay bribes for safe passage, according to investigators.
"United States tax dollars are feeding a  protection racket in Afghanistan that would make Tony  Soprano proud," Rep. John Tierney, D-Massachusetts, said Tuesday, referring to  an organized crime boss in the popular TV show "The Sopranos." Tierney make the  remark at a hearing on the issue the National Security Subcommittee of the House  Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
"This contract appears to  have fueled warlordism, extortion, corruption, and maybe even funded the enemy,"  said Tierney, who is chairman of the subcommittee.
The hearing comes shortly  after the release of a 79-page congressional report that details findings  ranging "from sobering to shocking," Tierney said in the report's introduction.
CNN reported on Monday that  the military is also investigating the issue.
The results of the six-month  investigation indicate that outsourcing the Afghanistan supply chain to  contractors has resulted in "significant unintended consequences, fueling  warlordism, extortion, and corruption, and it may be a significant source of  funding for insurgents," the report's  executive summary said.
"In other words, the  logistics contract has an outsized strategic impact on U.S. objectives in Afghanistan," the report said.
Investigators found that  Department of Defense "has been largely blind to the potential strategic  consequences of its supply-chain contingency contracting," and that the  U.S. military has little  understanding of how the security is provided.
When contractors reported to  the Defense Department that they were being extorted by warlords for protection payments for  safe passage and that these payments were "funding the insurgency, they were  largely met with indifference and inaction," the report said.
The  Army Criminal Investigation Division (CID) spokesman, Christopher Grey, said the  CID does have an investigation on "host-nation trucking" underway but he would  not discuss details.
The "Afghan Host Nation Trucking" contract in question stipulates that the prime contractors are  responsible for the safe passage of the cargo that they carry. Most contractors  subcontract, hiring local Afghans for armed protection of the convoys  transporting supplies.
The manager of the largest  private security provider, Watan Risk Management, said he  complained to U.S. military officials that his  company had to pay bribes ranging from $1,000 to $10,000 monthly to Afghan  governors, police chiefs, and local military officials whose territory the  convoys traversed. Defense Department officials confirmed they were aware of the bribes,  according to the report.
The private security  companies that protect the convoys regularly encounter armed conflict  with alleged insurgents and other criminal elements, the report says, and  hundreds of security providers are killed annually.
One key convoy security  commander in Afghanistan told investigators he  spent $1.5 million on ammunition per month to protect his convoy trucks.
Investigators found no  direct evidence of payoffs to the Taliban, but many military officials  overseeing the contract believed that the Taliban did receive protection  payments, based on information provided to them by contractor representatives,  the report said.
Since mid-2009, contractors  have completed over 40,000 missions, subcommittee statistics show.
Congressional  members at Tuesday's hearing pressed  witnesses for answers as to how the practice is allowed to continue.
Gary  Motsek, assistant deputy Under Secretary of Defense for  Program Support, and who is involved with Defense Department acquisition and logistics, acknowledged  the members' frustrations that  changes in the current conditions aren't happening quickly enough. But he said improvements  won't happen  overnight.
"I assure  you we're taking it all seriously,"  Motsek said. "But if I was a cop on the other side, I would say, 'Damn it, I'm doing what I can with what I  got."
Moshe Schwartz, a specialist in defense acquisition, said that for those who  believe the U.S. military shouldn't be  using outside contractors, "the solutions include increasing the size of the  military, rethinking current force structure, or choosing not to engage in  certain contingency operations."
Addressing  those who believe that the problem  is due to insufficient planning and poor management on the part of the military,  Schwartz said, "the solution may be to develop an effective strategy for using  PSCs (private security companies),  improving operational planning, and enhancing oversight."
Schwartz  acknowledged that the Defense Department has taken steps to improve its management and  coordination of private contractors, and but warned more needs to be done.
