Former Baltimore Orioles "Iron man" Cal Ripken Jr. said Friday that his 74-year-old mother is doing well after being abducted by a gunman last week, but he thinks the kidnapping might have been premeditated.
"Premeditated is my word, not law enforcement," Ripken told reporters. "Certainly there was a plan."
But the ex-baseball star then hedged, saying that "quite possibly it could have been random."
"We really just don't know why."
Ripken's mother safe after abduction
Violet Ripken is now safe and resting with relatives, he said. She has not yet returned home.
"You can't change your whole life and be fearful," Ripken said of the attack. "But it certainly changes your perspective."
Police in Aberdeen, Maryland, said a man with a gun showed up at her home between 7 and 8 a.m. Tuesday, and then forced her into her vehicle and drove off.
She was found about 6:15 a.m. Wednesday in the back seat of her vehicle near her home. Her hands were bound but she was otherwise unharmed.
Once she realized that she was alone in the car, the elder Ripken managed to stick a sweater out of the car window to attract attention, according to a source with knowledge of the investigation.
Aberdeen authorities say they are still looking for motives in the case and haven't found evidence of ransom demands for the elder Ripken.
"At this time I can say we know of no ransom demand," Police Chief Henry Trabert told reporters last week. He also said police don't know of any relationship between the suspect and the Ripken family.
The suspect apparently put sunglasses on the woman and they drove around all day and made stops for gas, but made no mention of Cal Ripken Jr., Trabert said.
The gunman did take the elder Ripken's credit cards and it appears he used them at several places, the chief said.
Police are looking for a white male with a light, thin build in his late 30s to early 40s last seen wearing a light-colored shirt, glasses and "camo pants." Police consider the man armed and dangerous.
Authorities are currently trying to enhance video of surveillance footage from a nearby store, the source said.
Cal Ripken Jr. achieved stardom as a shortstop and third baseman with the Baltimore Orioles and is a member of baseball's Hall of Fame.
He holds the Major League Baseball record the most consecutive games played -- 2,632 from 1982 to 1998 -- earning him the nickname "Iron man."
Police release photos of suspect in kidnapping of Cal Ripken's mother
CNN's Carol Cratty contributed to this report
