Have you been pining for your very own wearable $1,500 Google Glass but weren't sure how you, a regular nondeveloper residing in the United States, could procure one?
Tuesday will be your lucky day. Google is opening sales of Glass for one day only to any adult in the United States who wants one of the devices. In true sale fashion, Google is throwing in free frames or sunglasses for those first-time customers and the supply is limited. Sales start at 9 a.m. ET on April 15, but people can sign up now with Google to receive a reminder.
This is the first time the device has been available to the general public. So far, the face-mounted computers have  been sold only to Google "Explorers," the company's name for early adopters. At first only developers could buy Glass, but Google slowly expanded the program to include regular people. Some were hand-picked, others applied to be Explorers through Google contests by sharing what cool projects they would do if they had Glass.
In the year since Google Glass was first shipped, it has been lauded as the future of computing, criticized for hastening the death of privacy, and mocked for looking silly. People wearing Glass have been banned from bars and restaurants, given tickets for distracted driving, and dubbed "Glassholes." It's been a busy year.
Glass mounts on a pair of compatible glasses and positions a small display above the wearer's right eye. The wearer uses Glass to access the Internet and can simply look up to see things like directions, notifications and content from custom Glass apps on the screen. It is controlled by voice or using the tiny touch pad on the side.
The device's most controversial feature is a small camera that can record 720p video or snap still photos. There's no indicator light showing when the camera is on, though Glass wearers say the display lights up, so it's not a secret.
Google and Explorers say that more education and exposure is needed to dispel privacy fears and for the technology to be embraced by the general public. This one-day sale could lead to a lot more people donning the devices. We'll have to see if that helps or hurts the Google Glass cause.
