Defending champions Egypt became the second team to qualify for the quarterfinals of the Africa Cup of Nations with a 2-0 victory over Mozambique in Angola on Saturday night.
The six-time champions are guaranteed to finish top of Group C after a second successive victory, and join the Ivory Coast in the last eight.
Nigeria kept alive their hopes of reaching the knockout stages after edging past Benin 1-0 in Saturday's earlier Group C tie, bouncing back from their opening 3-1 defeat by the Pharaohs four days ago.
In a game of few clear-cut chances at the Estadio do Benguelam, Egypt took the lead two minutes after halftime when Mozambique defender Dario Khan turned a low right-wing cross from Hosni Abd Rabo into his own net despite no attacking players in his near vicinity.
Mozambique's veteran playmaker Tico Tico squandered a golden opportunity to equalize, while teammate Almiro Lobo had a 58th-minute effort ruled out for offside in a very tight ruling from the match officials.
Substitute Mohamed Gedo sealed Egypt's victory nine minutes from time with a superb opportunist effort, volleying home from the edge of the penalty after flicking the ball up when Emad Moteab's deflected pass fell kindly to him.
To qualify for the next round, Mozambique, who drew their first match 2-2, must beat Nigeria on Wednesday and hope that Egypt do not lose to Benin.
Nigeria's Super Eagles can go through with a draw after Aiyegbeni Yakubu's first-half penalty was enough to beat bottom nation Benin in Benguela.
The Everton striker should have scored as early as the 15th minute when he shot wide when clean through on goal, and Benin almost took the lead six minutes before halftime when Stephane Sessegnon hit the crossbar.
However, Yakubu made amends three minutes later from the spot after Romuald Boco handled Peter Odemwingie's goal-bound header.
The Squirrels were again denied by the woodwork after the break when Sessegnon set up Nouihoum Kobena, while Nigeria had two second-half chances to double their lead.
Goalkeeper Rachad Chitou came off his line to deny substitute striker Victor Obinna, while Chinedu Obasi Ogbuke headed wide from close range.
