World champion Sebastian Vettel claimed his fifth pole position in six attempts this season after profiting from a crash-affected qualifying session in Monaco on Saturday.
The German was outshone by McLaren's Lewis Hamilton in Q1 and Q2, but had set the fastest time of one minute and 13.556 seconds when Q3 was halted for more than half an hour after Mexican rookie Sergio Perez slid into the barriers of the street circuit.
Hamilton, the 2008 world champion, had yet to set his flying lap and was unable to do better than seventh following the resumption.
The British driver went above Mercedes' Nico Rosberg -- who crashed at the same place as Perez in Saturday's final practice session -- but could lose that spot after running across a chicane in his desperate attempt to move up the grid and attracting the interest of the race stewards.
The world's greatest motor race?
Perez, who was taken to hospital, is unlikely to race on Sunday after suffering concussion and a leg injury, but his Sauber team said he had escaped serious harm.
"It was with great relief the team received the news that Sergio Perez has no serious injuries after his heavy accident in the closing minutes of the final part of qualifying for the Monaco Grand Prix," the team said in a statement.
"The reason for the accident will be investigated and the team will update the media as soon as it has any further information."
It was the same barrier that Sauber's Karl Wenglinger hit in 1994, with the Austrian surviving after going into a coma.
Hamilton accuses Toro Rosso of helping Red Bull
Vettel leads the championship standings by 41 points from Hamilton, who is the only man to beat him this season -- in China last month.
The Red Bull driver bounced back from his runner-up finish in Shanghai to win in Turkey and Spain, and is now favorite to clinch his first victory in Monaco if he can avoid any mistakes as front-runner on the notoriously tricky track.
The 23-year-old will start ahead of Hamilton's teammate Jenson Button, who won at Monaco on the way to becoming world champion while at Brawn in 2009.
The Englishman clocked a best lap of 1:13.997 to head off 2010 Monaco winner Mark Webber in the second Red Bull (1:14.019) while final practice pacesetter Fernando Alonso of Ferrari was fourth in 1:14.483.
Seven-time world champion Michael Schumacher was fifth in 1:14.682, with the German hoping to equal Ayrton Senna's record of six victories in the principality despite another disappointing season so far for Mercedes.
Felipe Massa will start sixth for Ferrari, while Williams' Venezuelan rookie Pastor Maldonado was ninth ahead of the non-finishing Perez.
It was a disappointing day for Lotus Renault, who lost a naming-rights law battle with Team Lotus on Friday and then saw Vitaly Petrov and Nick Heidfeld fail to reach Q3.
Williams' veteran Brazilian driver Rubens Barrichello, four times a runner-up in Monaco, will start 11th behind Russia's Petrov if Perez cannot take to the wheel.
