Wayne Rooney's second-half hat-trick helped Manchester United move seven points clear in the English Premier League on Saturday as title rivals Arsenal and Chelsea were both held to draws.
United trailed 2-0 after only 25 minutes against relegation-threatened West Ham, but Rooney scored three goals in 14 minutes before substitute Javier Hernandez sealed a controversial 4-2 victory.
Both West Ham's goals came from the penalty spot, with midfielder Mark Noble scoring after Patrice Evra handled Carlton Cole's flick and then Nemanja Vidic fouled the striker on the edge of the area.
The home fans were furious when the Serbian defender remained on the pitch despite illegally denying striker Demba Ba what appeared to be a goalscoring opportunity, and United hit back in the second half after bringing on strikers Hernandez and Dimitar Berbatov to replace Evra and midfielder Park Ji-Sung.
Rooney curled in a superb free-kick in the 65th minute, then leveled eight minutes later with the 100th Premier League goal of his career.
The England striker completed his fourth league treble from the penalty spot after his international teammate Matthew Upson somewhat unluckily handled a cross by Fabio Da Silva as he regained his footing.
Mexico forward Hernandez sealed the victory from Ryan Giggs' cross with six minutes to play to give United a morale-boosting win ahead of Wednesday's first leg of the Champions League quarterfinal at Chelsea.
The London club, however, will go into the match knowing their Premier League title defense is realistically over with eight rounds to play after drawing 1-1 at Stoke.
Carlo Ancelotti's team are now 11 points off the pace, but United have played one more game than the rest of the top five.
Striker Jon Walters gave 10th-placed Stoke the lead in the eighth minute after surging forward from the halfway line, but Ivory Coast star Didier Drogba leveled with his first goal since January 24 with a header from Nicolas Anelka's cross in the 33rd minute.
Drogba twice hit the woodwork, while Stoke's Marc Wilson and Robert Huth were both denied by the crossbar.
Ancelotti brought on Fernando Torres for Anelka after an hour, but the Spain striker is still yet to score following his $80 million move from Liverpool in January.
Second-placed Arsenal no longer have the distraction of playing in Europe, but Arsene Wenger's team's poor run continued with a 0-0 draw at home to 10-man Blackburn.
The visitors had Steven Nzonzi sent off with 14 minutes to play after a two-footed challenge on defender Laurent Koscielny, but Arsenal could not force a winning goal and have now triumphed in just one game in seven in all competitions.
Fifth-placed Tottenham also suffered frustration ahead of Tuesday's Champions League quarterfinal first leg away to Real Madrid, being held goalless by bottom team Wigan.
The result was a big blow in the London team's hopes of qualifying for next season's premier European competition, with fourth-placed Manchester City three points ahead of Harry Redknapp's side ahead of Sunday's home match against Sunderland.
Liverpool's bid to catch Tottenham and secure a Europa League place faltered after a 2-1 defeat at former manager Roy Hodgson's new team West Brom.
Slovakia defender Martin Skrtel headed Liverpool into the lead five minutes after halftime, but Chris Brunt leveled with a penalty just after the hour and then netted the winner from the spot with a minute to go as Nigeria striker striker Peter Odemwingie was fouled both times.
The result lifted West Brom into 12th place, four points above the relegation zone.
Seventh-placed Everton moved to within four points of local rivals Liverpool after snatching a 2-2 draw at home to Aston Villa, who came from behind to lead with a double from England striker Darren Bent.
Leighton Baines leveled with a penalty seven minutes from fulltime after Cameroonian midfielder Jean Makoun fouled Phil Jagielka.
Eighth-placed Bolton lost 2-1 at Birmingham, a victory which lifted the League Cup winners out of the bottom three as veteran striker Kevin Phillips and midfielder Craig Gardner scored before Johan Elmander's consolation.
Newcastle moved up to ninth place with a 4-1 win over second-bottom Wolverhampton, who remained behind West Ham on goal difference.
