Formula One championship leader Fernando Alonso confirmed Tuesday that he will be fit for Ferrari's home race at Monza, after recovering from injuries sustained in a spectacular crash at the Belgian Grand Prix.
Alonso complained of pain in his left shoulder, after French driver Romain Grosjean's Lotus flew over his Ferrari on the first corner of Sunday's race, narrowly missing his head.
"Today I woke up with no pain and 200% ready for Monza," Alonso wrote on his Twitter blog.
Grosjean has been banned for one race for his part in the accident, which ended Alonso's chances along with McLaren's Lewis Hamilton and Mexican Sergio Perez of Sauber, after they were also caught up in the carnage.
Hamilton's teammate Jenson Button went on to win the race from pole position after avoiding the incident.
Alonso's championship lead was reduced to 24 points as two-time defending champion Sebastian Vettel capitalized on the chaos to finish second and move ahead of Red Bull teammate Mark Webber in the overall standings, heading into the Italian Grand Prix.
The Spaniard said after the horror crash that he felt lucky to be able to race on in the championship.
"Given the misfortune of having had an accident like this, I am lucky to be able to get back in the car in just a few days," Alonso said.
"The level of safety of these cars is very high and [in Belgium] we saw further proof of that.
"I am not angry with Grosjean, he definitely didn't do it on purpose. It was a case of me being in the wrong place at the wrong time.
"We paid a high price through bad luck and luck owes us now. Let's see what happens in the rest of the season."
Ferrari team boss Stefano Domenicali has emphasized the importance of next Sunday's race for his drivers, following the accident at Spa-Francorchamps.
"We must quickly put this day behind us and look to the next grand prix, in Monza, a track that is particularly dear to us," Domenicali said.
Grosjean, meanwhile, has been replaced by Lotus reserve driver Jerome D'Ambrosio, while he serves his suspension.
Belgian D'Ambrosio, 26, tested for Lotus in preseason and drove for Virgin Racing last year, finishing last in the drivers' championship.
