Washington (CNN)Republican Dan Sullivan has defeated incumbent Sen. Mark Begich in Alaska, CNN projects Wednesday.
"Today, we are going to begin the process of turning our country around and building a brighter future for our children," Sullivan said in a statement.
An updated vote tally from the Alaska Division of Elections has Sullivan leading Begich, 48.6% to 45.4%, as of Wednesday morning.
Republicans will now have at least 53 seats in the U.S. Senate next year, with one final race to be decided in Louisiana in a Dec. 6 run-off.
Begich, a first-term incumbent, faced off against Sullivan, a first-time candidate originally from Ohio, who sought to nationalize the race by calling the senator a "rubber stamp" for President Barack Obama, who polls poorly in the deeply red state.
As a senator, Begich voted for Obama's signature health care law, the Affordable Care Act, which has become a lightning-rod issue in the state and in other competitive races across the country.
Begich is the fourth Democratic Senate incumbent defeated in the Nov. 4 election.
For most of the contest, polling data showed him trailing Sullivan, leading Republicans to identify the state as an opportunity to gain a Senate seat on the hunt to wrest back control of the upper chamber. During the race, Sullivan highlighted his conservative stances like reining in federal spending, limiting abortions and expanding infrastructure in rural areas of the state.
Begich deflected attacks about his similarities to Obama by centering his campaign around local issues like his opposition to privatizing Social Security, support for veterans programs and increased funding and research for oil and renewable energy in the oil-rich state.
In a campaign ad, Begich drew a line in the sand between himself and the president, citing political differences on issues like Arctic drilling and gun rights.
"I am not his candidate," Begich said, admitting that he did vote for the president in 2008 and 2012.
CNN's Robert Yoon and Steve Brusk contributed to this report.
