Champions League newcomers Manchester City are still waiting for their first win in the competition as a double from Mario Gomez gave in-form Bayern Munich a 2-0 Group A victory at the Allianz Arena.
Bayern went into the match on the back of nine successive victories and they always looked dangerous in the first half, with Bastian Schweinsteiger volleying over the crossbar from close range in the 36th minute.
However, the home side took the lead just two minutes later when goalkeeper Joe Hart did superbly to keep out shots from Frank Ribery and Thomas Mueller, but Gomez was on hand to stab home from three meters out.
And the same player added a second goal on the stroke of half-time when Daniel Van Buyten's header was wonderfully saved by Hart, only for Gomez to be on hand again from close range.
City could find no response after the break, and a bad night for them was made worse when manager Roberto Mancini later confirmed that former captain Carlos Tevez refused to come onto the pitch in the second half after being named only as a substitute.
An angry Mancini told reporters: "I asked him to go on and help the team. We have 11 players -- maybe he was disappointed because he didn't play from the start. If I have my way he will be out of the club."
The result leaves Bayern top of the table with a maximum six points from their two games, with Napoli second on four points after the Italian side beat Villarreal 2-0 in Naples.
They opened the scoring in the 14th minute when Marek Hamsik chested down Ezequiel Lavezzi's cross at the back post, before firing home with his left foot.
And Edinson Cavani added a second from the penalty spot just three minutes later after Lavezzi was fouled by Gonzalo Rodriguez in the area.
Big-spending City, who are joint top of the English Premier League with five wins and a draw from their six games so far, are back in third with just a single point following their opening home draw against Napoli, while Spanish side Villarreal are bottom of the group without a point, or a goal, so far.
Meanwhile, 2010 champions Inter Milan made it two wins out of two under new coach Claudio Ranieri with a thrilling 3-2 Group B victory at CSKA Moscow.
Ranieri replaced Gian Piero Gasperini last week, and began his San Siro tenure with a 3-1 Serie A win at Bologna over the weekend.
And Inter showed they had got their shock opening 1-0 defeat by Trabzonspor out of their system, by repelling a CSKA fightback to secure their first victory in the tournament.
Brazilian defender Lucio fired Inter ahead from the edge of the box after just six minutes and the Italian side doubled their lead midway through the half, when Giampaolo Pazzini netted from close range after fine work from Yuto Nagatomo.
However, the Russian side pulled a goal back on the stroke of half-time with a well-placed Alan Dzagoev free-kick and Brazilian Vagner Love levelled with 13 minutes remaining with a low drive.
But, just a minute later, Mauro Zarate converted from Esteban Cambiasso's pass to give Inter a vital victory.
The other group match saw Trabzonspor and Lille share a 1-1 draw in Turkey.
Moussa Sow opened the scoring for the French side when he converted Eden Hazard's pass from a tight angle, but the home side earned a draw in the 75th minute when Gustavo Colman scored from the penalty spot after Mathieu Debuchy handled in the area.
The result sees Trabzonspor top the group with four points, ahead of Inter on three, Lille on two and CSKA Moscow on a single point.
Premier League leaders Manchester United needed a last-gasp Ashley Young goal to rescue a 3-3 Group C draw at home to Swiss side Basel, in a thrilling match that saw United squander a comfortable two-goal lead.
United took a 16th minute lead when Danny Welbeck, in for the injured Wayne Rooney, was left unmarked in the area to score off the post, and the young England international added his second just a minute later when side-footing home a Ryan Giggs pass.
But United took their foot off the gas and Basel pulled a goal back when Fabian Frei lashed home in the 58th minute after the United defense were slow to clear a corner.
And, just two minutes later, Basel drew level when Frei's right-wing cross was superbly headed home by his namesake Alex Frei.
Basel looked to have stolen a famous victory when they went ahead in the 75th minute after Antonio Valencia fouled Marco Streller in the area and Alex Frei scored the resulting penalty.
But Young's late header from Nani's cross rescued a point for United, although they surrendered their 20-match winning run at Old Trafford in all competitions.
Benfica beat Otelul Galati 1-0 in Romania in the other group game, which leaves Basel and Benfica level on top of the group on four points, with Manchester United third on two points after drawing their opening two matches.
Real Madrid are top of Group D with a maximum six points from their two matches, after a 3-0 win over Ajax at the Bernabeu.
Cristiano Ronaldo opened the scoring in the 25th minute when he converted a fine flowing move that saw five players involved.
And the Spanish giants doubled their lead four minutes before the break when Kaka fired home a left-foot shot into the bottom corner of the net from Ronaldo's pass.
The home side secured the points early in the second half when Kaka found Karim Benzema, who found the net from 10 yards out.
Lyon are second in the table with four points after they beat Dinamo Zagreb 2-0 at the Stade de Gerland in their 100th Champions League game.
Bafetimbi Gomis opened the scoring with a sublime chip and Bakary Kone sealed the points from close range.
Ajax are third in the group with a single point, while Zagreb are bottom after losing their opening two matches.
