Justin Bieber is completely off the hook for an incident in which a Los Angeles woman accused him of trying to take her cell phone last month.
But a Los Angeles prosecutor is expected to soon charge Bieber, 20, with vandalism in a separate incident, the egging of his neighbor's mansion, a source involved in the case told CNN on Monday.
The Los Angeles city attorney decided Monday there was "a lack of evidence" to prosecute the singer for attempted robbery in connection with an argument with a woman at a miniature golf park last month, according to spokesman Rob Wilcox.
The case was handed to the city attorney's office last week for consideration of a misdemeanor charge after the Los Angeles district attorney declined to file a felony charge.
Justin Bieber avoids felony robbery charge in cell phone 'tussle'
A criminal charge in the egging probe is coming as soon as Monday afternoon, a source told CNN. The Los Angeles County district attorney has been considering the case since February, when sheriff's investigators recommended that Bieber, be charged with felony vandalism for the January incident.
The vandalism case is what lawyers call a "wobbler," meaning the district attorney must decide if it will be prosecuted as a felony -- which could have much more serious consequences for the singer -- or as a misdemeanor. There was no indication which charge would be filed against Bieber, the source said.
Justin Bieber: 'Don't believe rumors'
A spokeswoman for the district attorney declined to confirm the report. "When something happens, we will let everyone know at the same time," Jane Robison told CNN on Monday.
The family living in the mansion next to Bieber's in an exclusive Calabasas, California, neighborhood accused the singer of tossing eggs from his yard onto their home.
Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department detectives are pushing for a felony charge, based on the estimated $20,000 in damage caused by the eggs.
Is Justin Bieber getting special treatment?
Bieber's attorneys met with prosecutors in March to argue that since the egging was "a silly prank" and Bieber has no criminal record, it should be treated as a misdemeanor, two sources at the time said.
Bieber, 20, has since moved from the neighborhood, selling the mansion to Khloe Kardashian.
Bieber's drunken driving charge in Miami is also still pending, although a source close to that case said talks are under way to reach a plea deal to avoid a trial.
Justin Bieber again caught in racial controversy
