European Ryder Cup star Miguel Angel Jimenez snapped his putter in frustration at the Volvo Golf Champions tournament in Bahrain but then carded three birdies with his lob wedge to tie for the lead.
The Spaniard became increasingly frustrated with his play on the greens after missing a succession of birdie chances and snapped his putter in two on the 13th hole.
But if anything, it gave his game a boost as he picked up shots on the 15th, 16th and 17th to finish with a 65 and tie with three other players at 11-under-par after the second round.
Italian Edoardo Molinari, Sweden's Peter Hanson and Frenchman Raphaël Jacquelin share the lead with Jimenez.
After his extraordinary hat-trick of birdies Jimenez joked on the European Tour website: "I think now I putt with my lob wedge."
Northern Irishman Darren Clarke, who was a vice-captain during Europe's Ryder Cup victory over the United States in Wales last year, was playing with Jimenez when his putter felt the full force of his anger.
Clarke told how his playing partner "just caught the edge of his bag" with the putter, joking that his backswing was "a bit long."
Molinari came flying out of the traps carding six birdies in the opening six holes but after such an impressive start he managed only one more in his round of 65.
Hanson shot a five-under round of 67 to take a share of the lead, while Jacquelin matched Molinari and Jimenez with seven birdies in his round.
Clarke is in a group of four players one shot behind the leaders with England's Paul Casey, Scot Stephen Gallacher and South Africa's James Kingston.
It wasn't such a good day for England's Ian Poulter who finished on three-under and tied for 50th place. After his opening round of level par on Thursday he ranted on his Twitter site.
He said: "Played great today 35 putts, missed 1 green, Simply the WORST greens i have ever seen & im not joking they are embarrassing."
He later added: "Apparently the Architect wanted to make a statement with the greens, he did that alright they are &%$#."
