George Clooney, the man long considered one of Hollywood's most eligible bachelors, followed up his private wedding to British human rights attorney Amal Alamuddin with a civil ceremony in Venice, Italy, on Monday.
Clooney, 53, and Alamuddin, 36, arrived at Venice's city hall -- the Ca' Farsetti palazzo -- in a water taxi appropriately named "Amore," or "Love."
Venetian authorities stopped pedestrian and boat traffic in the area for the ceremony.
Clooney wore a gray suit and dark tie, while Alamuddin was dressed in flowing cream trousers, a cream top with a blue border and a wide-brimmed matching hat.
The couple spent about 10 minutes inside the venue before boating to their hotel, with well-wishers lining the canal.
Rai, Italian state television, later reported that they had left Venice on a private jet, heading for London -- leaving "Amore" free for other visitors to the city.
Private ceremony
Celebrities, paparazzi and the world's media congregated in Venice for Clooney and Alamuddin's widely anticipated nuptials.
Their private ceremony on Saturday was marked with a star-studded bash at the Aman Canal Grande Venice resort, housed in the 16th-century Palazzo Papadopoli.
Clooney also arrived by motorboat to that ceremony, waving to the sound of "George, auguri!" as Venetians offered their best wishes.
Plenty of paparazzi, cameramen and photographers were on the docks facing the Aman Canal Grande. Others were going up and down the Grand Canal on taxi boats.
The first celebrity guests to arrive were also caught on camera in the city famed for romance, notably actor Matt Damon, American Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour and supermodel Cindy Crawford.
"I guess this is, as Dean Martin put it, 'That's Amore,' the land of love," said a tourist visiting Venice from Canada, referring to the late crooner's signature song.
"Yes, my heart is broken but I'm excited," his partner said with a smile.
The actor and his then-fiancee were also photographed Friday cruising the sun-dappled canals of Venice ahead of their big day.
Why Venice?
Clooney revealed earlier this month at a celebrity charity event in Tuscany, Italy, that he and Alamuddin would be tying the knot in Venice.
According to People magazine, Clooney was receiving a humanitarian award at the black-tie gala, and said during his acceptance speech, "I met my lovely bride-to-be here in Italy, whom I will be marrying, in a couple of weeks, in Venice, of all places."
Since they became engaged in the spring, Clooney and Alamuddin have been largely protective of their relationship.
When a Daily Mail report claimed that Clooney and his Lebanese future mother-in-law, Baria Alamuddin, were at odds, Clooney blasted the publication with a first-person piece in USA Today, and then refused to accept the Daily Mail's subsequent apology.
Laura Smith-Spark reported from London and Erin McLaughlin and Livia Borghese reported from Venice for this article.
