(CNN Student News) -- August 27, 2013
On Tuesday, CNN Student News explains when a massive wildfire can be declared as controlled, and we consider how U.N. inspectors try to determine the use of chemical weapons in a war zone. We also report on the newest U.S. Medal of Honor recipient, and we meet a DJ who uses senses other than his hearing to make music. Plus, some students tell us what topics they'd want to discuss with President Obama.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What kinds of images most effectively illustrate the destructiveness of a wildfire? How could a news broadcast show the scope of a particularly large disaster?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects from today's show:
1. United Nations
2. Medal of Honor
3. sense of hearing
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. A wildfire is threatening some water and power supplies to what California city?
2. What medal was U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Ty Carter awarded yesterday for his actions during a battle in Afghanistan?
3. What composer wrote the musical work "Ode to Joy"?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why might the international community have a high level of concern regarding the potential use of chemical weapons?
2. If you had the opportunity to interview the president, what questions would you ask? What would you want the president to know about your school, your community and your life?
3. What challenges do you think that Robbie Wilde faced on his way to becoming a DJ? What was your reaction to his story?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Yosemite National Park, California; New York City
Asia
Syria; Afghanistan
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
