Luke Donald maintained his bid to become the world's No. 1 golfer as he battled back from a horror start to his third round at the European Tour's BMW PGA Championship on Saturday.
The Englishman remained tied for the lead with teen prodigy Matteo Manassero going into Sunday's final round in England as he retrieved a six-shot deficit.
Donald, who needs to finish ahead of top-ranked Lee Westwood to go to the summit for the first time, had begun the day level with the 18-year-old Italian and Spain's Alvaro Quiros.
But two double-bogeys and another dropped shot in his first six holes left last weekend's World Match Play Championship runner-up struggling before he rallied with four birdies on the back nine of the revamped Wentworth course.
Donald said he planned to consult with his U.S.-based coach Pat Goss after his unusually erratic showing.
"He might have seen something and a little key could make a big difference. I didn't have much control of the ball, but I dug deep and I'm very proud of the way I came back," he told the European Tour website.
"I am going to have to play better than that for sure. I felt somewhat like Seve (Ballesteros) -- in the trees, leaves on my back, dropping the ball, escaping from everywhere.
"It would have been very easy to keep the head down and shoot myself out of the tournament, but I don't like to do that and it was a great fightback."
Manassero also carded a one-over-par 72 to be five-under 208, with last season's European Tour rookie of the year mixing three bogeys with two birdies on his front nine.
Westwood was tied for third on three under with Paraguayan surprise package Fabrizio Zanotti after a second successive 69 kept alive his hopes of a first win in the tour's flagship event.
"I am edging my way into the week and hopefully tomorrow I will play special because that's what I think I will need to win," he said.
"It was a good 69. You've got to be on your game -- it's a tough examination."
Zanotti, twice a runner-up in minor tour events, bounced back from four bogeys in his first seven holes to reel off five in a row and then another at 16 to also sign for a 69.
Quiros dropped to a tie for eighth on 212 after suffering the embarrassment of two triple-bogeys in his 76.
World No. 6 Rory McIlroy shot the best round of the day -- a four-birdie 68 marred by a dropped shot at the last -- to move up to a tie for 18th on 214.
