Everyone knows that Super Bowl host New Orleans can throw a party better than almost any other city in the world. But If you can't get there anytime soon, know that the cities sending teams to Sunday's game also know how to have a good time.
San Franciscans cheering the 49ers will tell you they have much to celebrate outside of football season, including a food and coffee culture that just won't quit. So do the residents of underrated Baltimore, where you can grab a bushel of crabs but not talk too loudly about the long-departed Colts.
That's why CNN asked noted San Francisco chef and restaurateur Traci Des Jardins and CBS Baltimore weathercaster and personality Marty Bass for their must-do lists for their beloved cities.
"Super Gras" a big score for New Orleans
First up: Bass, a fixture in Baltimore since he joined the CBS Baltimore team in 1977.
Where can you sneak away for an hour in Baltimore?
"Head to Cross Street Market in South Baltimore/Federal Hill. It's city-owned with many stalls and the home of Nick's Seafood and the Samurai Sushi Bar. Totally local. Sit with Ravens Nation and eat a ton of local oysters, clams, crabs in season and other Chesapeake Bay delights. And of course the beer is cold."
Maybe you can steal a little more time -- a whole afternoon?
"Go to Fell's Point, our original seaport. The weekend afternoon music at the Cat's Eye Pub is always good. Right next door at the Thames Street Oyster House you can have more delights from the Chesapeake."
If you can swing an entire day?
"It's time for museums, and we have two great ones. The Baltimore Museum of Art has a large collection of Cezanne and Matisse. It's also home of the world-famous Cone Collection and in the modern wing, a killer collection of Andy Warhol works. After that, have lunch at Gertrude's at the BMA. Again all local Chesapeake recipes from a fine chef named John Shields. Then head to the Inner Harbor and to the American Visionary Arts Museum. All outsider art."
What about a nearby overnight?
"Hell, stay here. Great Italian and Greeks spots and some fine clubs. But if you must leave, head to Annapolis. Stay at the Maryland Inn and stroll America's first capital and one of America's great boating centers."
Trips for crime fiction lovers, including Laura Lippman's Baltimore
On the other coast
Next up: San Francisco chef Des Jardins
Her restaurants include Jardiniere and Public House in San Francisco, and Manzanita at the Ritz-Carlton in Lake Tahoe.
Where can you sneak away for an hour in San Francisco?
"Take a walk through the Ferry Building Marketplace and along the Embarcadero. You can do a bit of window shopping in the Ferry Building or buy any number of delicious local treats from some of the best food producers in the world. You can walk out of the building onto the back plaza and sit on a bench looking at the Bay Bridge and enjoy a quick lunch or a great cup of coffee. Or take a nice stroll along the Embarcadero and enjoy the views."
Maybe you can steal a little more time -- a whole afternoon?
"Take a walk or hike at Lands End, part of the Golden Gate National Parks, located in the northwest corner of San Francisco. You can take a little walk or a fairly rigorous hike depending on any number of path choices along the way at Lands End. There are great views of the Golden Gate Bridge, Sutro Baths, the Legion of Honor and the Marin Headlands."
If you can swing an entire day?
"Get lost in the beauty of Muir Woods, a National Park Service monument, where there are any number of hiking options. You can spend a day wandering through the beautiful paths."
What about a nearby overnight?
"A trip to Sonoma to 'the other wine country.' Stay at the Hotel Healdsburg or h2hotel, and enjoy the many great restaurants available in Healdsburg. The hotel has a great spa, and you can go on wine-tasting excursions at many of the great Sonoma wineries."
What would you recommend in these cities? Share your suggestions in the comments section.
Answers have been edited and condensed for clarity.
