(CNN)Chelsea underlined its title credentials with an attacking masterclass against Swansea, Saturday.
The London club moved five points clear at the top of the English Premier League table with a 5-0 victory at the Liberty Stadium.
With less than a minute on the clock, Oscar fired the table toppers into the lead to ignite the goal rush.
Diego Costa -- the leading scorer in the EPL with 17 goals -- added two more before Oscar bagged his second just before halftime.
After goals galore there was only a single strike from Andre Schurrle to savor after the break. The German winger came off the bench to make it five for Chelsea.
"The result is impressive," manager Jose Mourinho told Chelsea TV. "The performance was very good, very solid and very enjoyable."
The free flowing display by Mourinho's men was a warning to those threatening to deny Chelsea its first title since 2010.
Manchester City, the defending champions, will aim to close the gap when it faces Arsenal Sunday.
Elsewhere, hirsute substitute Marouane Fellaini broke the deadlock against Queen's Park Rangers to help earn Manchester United a 2-0 victory.
The Belgian hammered home a 10-yard strike before James Wilson sealed victory late on.
QPR once again relied upon the efforts of the lively Charlie Austin, who was tireless in his pursuit of an equalizer, but the West London club remain mired in the relegation tone.
The club's unflappable manager Harry Redknapp shrugged off any worries, telling Sky Sports: "QPR won't go down this year."
In the EPL's late game, Southampton moved into third place thanks to a 2-1 away victory at Newcastle.
January on loan signing Eljero Elia scored both goals, his first for the club, in a sizzling performance.
Elsewhere, in form French forward Alexandre Lacazette scored his 20th goal in 21 Ligue 1 matches to stretch Lyon's league lead.
Lyon left Lens with a 2-0 victory -- Jean-Phillippe Gbamin added an own goal with an errant back heel  -- to move four points clear of Marseille at the top of the table.
Lacazette is closing in on Josip Skoblar's Ligue 1 record of 44 goals scored in a single season which he set back in 1970-1971.
In Italy's Serie A, title challengers Roma could only close to within two points of leaders Juventus -- who meet Verona Sunday -- after being held by Palermo.
Striker Mattia Destro salvaged a point for Roma after Argentina's Paulo Dybala had put the home side ahead.
Inter Milan's hopes of qualifying for the Champions League took another knock as Robert Mancini's side slid to ninth after a goalless draw at Empoli.
In Spain, Valencia moved above La Liga champions Atletico Madrid and into third on goal difference after a 3-2 win over Almeria.
Diego Simeone's men face Granada Sunday when leaders Real Madrid and pursuers Barcelona are also in action.
David Moyes tasted his first home defeat as Real Sociedad manager as his side lost 1-0 to Rayo Vallecano.
The former Manchester United boss has guided Sociedad to just two wins in eight league games since taking over the reins.
