Oh, oh, oh -- golf's very own version of the "Fab Four" are back with a bang.
After racking up nearly six millions hits on YouTube with their debut music video, the Golf Boys have returned with "2.Oh", a rap inspired by the stars of the PGA Tour which aims to raise money for charity in Africa.
U.S. golfers Ben Crane, Bubba Watson, Rickie Fowler and Hunter Mahan first joined forces in 2011 for "Oh, Oh, Oh", and the quartet have once again taken to the mic -- this time to help provide clean water for the people of Ethiopia.
By Tuesday, the video had amassed nearly 700,000 views on the video-sharing website after less than 24 hours online.
"We are in a truly unique era," Crane told the PGA Tour's official website. "I love that we can goof off on YouTube and help people across the world. I'm all in for that."
Four-time tournament winner Crane is already an online star in his own right. The world No. 103's YouTube channel is the second most popular of any active athlete, surpassing that of NBA superstar LeBron James, according to the PGA Tour report.
"On a personal level, social media has done a lot to change the perception of who I am," explained Crane, whose spoof workout video has been viewed over one million times.
"I think I've been able to show fans a different side of myself and other pro golfers. I'm a golfer, first and foremost, but spending one day every few months to create a video that raises money for charity and might grow the game is too good of an opportunity to pass up.
"I think making these videos has helped make us more relatable (sic) to a demographic that might not otherwise be attracted to golf. As professional golfers, we're sort of caretakers of the game.
"There is nothing wrong with being an older sport, but we want to do our best to grow it. The easiest way to do that is by engaging younger fans."
Masters champion Watson is pleased to be able to show the lighter side of the Tour, while also helping "charity:water." The organization's aim is to provide clean water to impoverished communities.
"We obviously don't have any profit motive here," said Watson, who is ranked 11th in the world.
"We're just having fun and sharing a bit of our personality with fans. I think it's awesome that we will be able to provide clean water and awareness for our brothers and sisters in Ethiopia.
"If we can reach new fans and grow the game of golf in the process, that's a huge bonus."
The lyrics to the song -- which includes references to a long list of golf stars including Tiger Woods, Adam Scott, Louis Oosthuizen and Stewart "Stewey" Cink -- were penned by Crane's friend Mat Kearney.
"Ben and I have been friends for a long time," said Kearney. "He mentioned they might do a new Golf Boys song, so I got off the phone and tried to come up with a hard-hitting hip hop track.
"I thought using golfers' names as puns would be pretty dang funny. I sat there for hours cracking myself up. How often do you get to write a rap for someone who's won the Masters?"
