Sen. Rand Paul made clear to his team of political advisers Wednesday that he'll run for re-election to the Senate in 2016 and reiterated that he won't make a decision on a presidential run until next spring, according to a spokesman.
His strategists met behind closed doors at a Washington hotel Wednesday to sketch out a road map for 2015 and review the past two years, during which Paul traveled to 35 states campaigning for candidates and raising his national profile.
Paul, a Republican from Kentucky, attended most of the meetings as well as a group dinner in the evening, said spokesman Sergio Gor.
The sessions, led by RAND PAC executive director Doug Stafford, covered fundraising performance, grassroots engagement, communications, outreach and other areas of interest, though Gor did not give specifics.
Paul has long made it known that he plans to campaign for a second term in the Senate, but questions have emerged over whether he can run for his seat and for the White House at the same time. Kentucky law prohibits candidates from appearing on the same ballot for two different offices.
Attempts to change the law were made last year in the GOP-controlled state Senate but stalled in the Democratic-controlled state House. Attempts by Republicans to retake control of the state House in last week's elections were unsuccessful, meaning the law will likely stay in the books for 2016.
Some of Paul's supporters have argued the law could be challenged, while others say there are ways he can get around it so that his name won't appear on the ballot twice. One such scenario would mean the state party changes its presidential primary to a caucus system.
Attendees at Wednesday's meeting included Michael Biundo of New Hampshire. Biundo, who previously chaired Rick Santorum's presidential campaign, was one of a number key hires this year by RAND PAC in early primary states. The team also added Steve Grubbs and A.J. Spiker -- both former chairmen of the Iowa Republican Party -- as well as Republican consultant John Yob in Michigan.
