January 23, 2015
Friday's show begins with a report concerning 21 countries but centering on the fight against one terrorist group. We update you on events in Yemen and log on to explore the controversial issue of "net neutrality." And we'll take a look at how shrinking technology is yielding tiny, flying drones: Who could benefit from using them?
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. The U.S. government says 2014 was the warmest year on record. In what year did scientists begin keeping records?
2. In what field did Martin Luther King Jr. earn his doctorate?
3. The first radio broadcast of a U.S. president's annual message to Congress was in 1923. What president delivered the speech?
4. What Middle Eastern country experienced political turmoil when a group of militants called Houthis took over government buildings?
5. Alexander Fleming accidentally discovered the world's first antibiotic. What is it called?
6. What is the capital of Cuba, where U.S. diplomats arrived this week to discuss renewed relations?
7. What state produces most of the avocados that are consumed in the U.S.?
8. What NFL team is under investigation for allegedly playing with underinflated footballs in a championship game?
9. What famous U.S. suspension bridge opened in 1937?
10. What agency of the U.S. government regulates interstate and international communications?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
