Two people, including pro football player Donte Stallworth, were hospitalized Saturday after the hot air balloon they were riding in crashed into power lines in Miami, police said.
A third passenger in the balloon was not injured.
Police responded to calls at around 10 a.m. about the basket of the hot air balloon crashing into the power lines while airborne.
The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating the crash with the help of Miami-Dade police, Detective Roy Rutland said. Video from CNN affiliate WSVN showed the basket (where people stand) upright on a two-lane road, while the envelope (the balloon part) sat some distance nearby.
Stallworth suffered severe burns and is in stable condition at Miami's Kendall Regional Medical Center, said his attorney, Christopher Lyons.
The wide receiver was in the balloon with a female friend when the accident occurred, according to Lyons. The lawyer did not name the woman or detail her condition. The third person was operating the balloon, according to local media reports.
The California native began his NFL career in 2002 with the New Orleans Saints and most recently played for the New England Patriots. His is currently a free agent.
Drew Rosenhaus, Stallworth's sports agent, said his client is "in good spirits."
"He was injured, but will be fine," said Rosenhaus, adding later that he hopes Stallworth is back playing "in a matter of weeks." "He will be able to resume his NFL career."
Beyond his on-field exploits -- from his time at the University of Tennessee to his years playing with the Saints, Patriots, Philadelphia Eagles, Cleveland Browns, Baltimore Ravens and Washington Redskins -- Stallworth is known for hitting and killing a construction worker crossing a street in Miami in 2009.
Under a plea agreement, Stallworth was sentenced to 30 days in jail for DUI manslaughter. He also reached an "amicable" settlement with the Reyes family, his lawyer, Lyons, said. The NFL also suspended him for one season.
CNN's Rick Martin and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
