(CNN Student News) -- January 7, 2014
For much of the U.S., the weather outside is frightful. In today's edition of CNN Student News, find out why -- and what exactly a "polar vortex" is. We also provide tips for warding off the flu, and we show you how spoken word is more than a verbal outlet for some teenagers.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What kinds of information and messages do you think news media should provide in times of severe weather?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects from today's show:
1. polar vortex
2. H1N1
3. vaccine
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Why is the latest frigid weather to hit the U.S. being called "dangerous"? How long is this weather expected to last?
2. What is H1N1 also known as? How do humans catch this virus?
3. What winter event is currently underway in Harbin, China?
Discussion Questions:
1. What tips would you include in a video titled "How not to catch the flu"? Can you think of others that are not included in today's report?
2. What challenges might snow and ice present for people in wheelchairs? What do you think of the innovation seen in the video? Do you have any other ideas for winter weather accessibility for people who rely on wheelchairs? Explain.
3. Do you like poetry? Have you ever used poetry to express yourself? Do you use any other forms of art to express with your feelings? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
