South Korean President Lee Myung-bak held a special meeting Thursday morning to discuss an urgent plan to evacuate South Korean construction workers in Libya. There are 1,398 South Koreans in the country working on almost 300 building sites.
The presidential office tells CNN it's sending an Egypt Air plane to Tripoli on Thursday. The first flight will evacuate 260 workers and their families. Officials are looking into chartering more planes to speed up the process. Plans were also discussed to move personnel out of the country by land and sea routes.
Lee told ministers to "use all possible measures for Koreans and Korean construction workers' security." An emergency response team is already on the ground helping workers of 24 construction firms operating in Libya.
A spate of attacks and violent break-ins have been reported at some construction sites in Libya amid growing anti-government protests and violence. An attack Monday left 17 workers injured. Two workers from Bangladesh suffered serious wounds after being stabbed, according to the South Korean Foreign Ministry.
The Middle East is a substantial and important market for South Korean construction companies. Firms have been working in the region for around three decades. Projects in the Middle East are worth $257 billion, according to the International Contractors Association of Korea.
The association says ongoing projects in Libya are worth $36.4 billion. Companies are asking the South Korean government not only to ensure the safety of their workers but also to give support if the violence is prolonged and work is stalled indefinitely.
Exports from South Korea to Libya are also expected to be hit hard. Almost 600 companies rely on business in Libya, exporting goods such as ships, cars and heavy industries, a lucrative market worth $1.4 billion last year.
A poll taken by the Korea Trade Investment Promotion Agency estimates exports will take an $18.7 million hit this year.
The South Korean government has advised its citizens to cancel all nonurgent travel to Libya.
Lee also asked his government to "closely monitor the oil price and the impact to the economy." Lee stressed the importance of domestic energy conservation.
