(CNN)  -- Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni slammed the pitch in Colombo after the second Test against hosts Sri Lanka petered out into a high-scoring draw Friday.
India were hoping to hit back after losing the first match of the series, Mutiah Muralitharan's triumphant Test farewell, but were frustrated by batting-friendly conditions.
Dhoni's team scored a massive 707 in reply to Sri Lanka's 642 for four wickets.
Sri Lanka were 129 for three wickets in their second innings when play was called off an hour early with no chance of a positive result.
Skipper Kumar Sangakkara was unbeaten on 42 and Thilan Samaraweera was on 10 as they steadied the ship after the early loss of wickets.
"This one was very unsporting, there was nothing in it for the bowlers," Dhoni told AFP after a total 1,478 runs were scored and only 17 wickets claimed over the five days.
"If there is nothing for fast bowlers in a wicket it should help spinners. This was just for batsmen," Dhoni added.
"The bowlers got spanked all around the park."
India's massive knock was highlighted by a double century from Test-leading run scorer Sachin Tendulkar, while debutant Suresh Raina made 120 and Dhoni 76.
The 37-year-old Tendulkar shows no signs of easing up in his pursuit of yet more records.
"As long as you are mentally strong and prepared to go through the grind, age really does not really matter," he said.
Sri Lanka will go into the final Test from next Tuesday with a 1-0 series lead after their thumping 10-wicket win in Galle where Muralitharan topped off his incredible career by reaching 800 Test wickets.
In other Test cricket action Friday, James Anderson celebrated his 28th birthday with a superb five-wicket haul as Pakistan slumped to 147 for nine on the second day of the first Test against England at Trent Bridge.
Anderson swung the ball in trademark fashion to finish with five wickets for 49 runs in 20 overs as Pakistan were left 207 adrift of England's first innings 354 when bad light forced an early close.
Young paceman Steven Finn supported Anderson with three for 20 in 11 overs as Pakistan collapsed to 47 for six before Umar Gul's 30 not out at better than a run a ball took them to within eight runs of avoiding the follow-on.
Earlier, England had lost their last six wickets for just 17 runs as Mohammad Asif took five wickets for Pakistan.
