Manchester City's pursuit of Arsenal midfielder Samir Nasri appears to be coming to an end after the two clubs agreed a fee for the French international.
Nasri had just one year remaining on his Arsenal contract and City's offer, believed to be in the region of $32 million, has persuaded the London club to cash in, despite manager Arsene Wenger's reluctance to lose the player he signed from Marseille in 2008.
The transfer was thought to have hit a stumbling block last week, resulting in Nasri appearing for Arsenal in their 2-0 home defeat by Liverpool on Saturday.
What now for Arsenal and Fabregas?
However, Nasri has been left out of Arsenal's squad for the second leg of their Champions League qualifier against Udinese, meaning he will not be cup-tied for City's own Champions League campaign.
The move, which is now dependent on Nasri passing his medical, will see the 24-year-old become the second player to join City from Arsenal since the end of last season, following defender Gael Clichy's switch, while Kolo Toure and Emmanuel Adebayor have also made the same move over the last two years.
Nasri follows captain Cesc Fabregas, who completed his transfer to Barcelona last week, out of the Emirates exit door, leaving Wenger with a massive influx of money available to him to reinforce his Arsenal squad by the close of the transfer window on August 31.
And Fabregas used his personal Twitter account to say: "Good luck to my friend Nasri at his new club. One of the best players around."
The Gunners have had a shaky start to the English Premier League season, with just one point and no goals from their opening two matches, leaving Wenger under more pressure than he has ever faced since becoming Arsenal manager 15 years ago.
"The summer was difficult because we had Fabregas and Nasri on permanent transfer negotiations and that is draining in the end," Wenger told the official Arsenal website.
"We lost two great players and that's sad, but at some stage it has to be over because we want to focus on the future.
"Overall what you do not want is to have players who play and think they go the next morning, that is not ideal. You want players who are completely committed to the long term," he added.
Wenger must also take his depleted squad to Italy for Wednesday's crucial match against Udinese, with the Londoners holding a slender 1-0 advantage from the first leg.
However, UEFA have confirmed that Wenger will be allowed to sit on the bench for the match after Arsenal appealed against a two-match touchline ban for breaking the terms of his one-match suspension during the first leg against Udinese.
In other transfer news, Premier League side Blackburn Rovers have completed their fourth signing of the transfer window, with 25-year-old Montenegro winger Simon Vukcevic joining from Sporting Lisbon on a three-year contract for a fee of $3m.
