A judge Monday named famed radio countdown host Casey Kasem's daughter as the temporary conservator of her ailing father, a spokeswoman said.
The conservatorship is in effect until June 20, when a hearing is scheduled on whether to make the conservatorship permanent, according to the Los Angeles County Superior Court spokeswoman Patricia Kelly.
"Justice was finally served! I just won temporary conservatorship over my father's healthcare. We have been vindicated by the court. Thank you for your prayers, well wishes and support through this entire ordeal," Kasem's daughter, Kerri Kasem, posted on her Facebook page soon after the order.
Later, she added: "I believe my father's wife fled the country (or possibly went to an Indian Reservation) with my Dad because she knew I would win in court today. The judge ordered, Adult Protective Services, the PVP Attorney and the police to look for him. Please pray that he is safe."
Judge Daniel Murphy also ordered that Casey Kasem's whereabouts be disclosed, the daughter's lawyer said. He had "grave concern" for the "safety, health and well-being" of Casey Kasem, attorney Troy Martin told CNN.
A different judge denied a request by Kasem's children that a temporary conservator be appointed for their father last year.
Kasem's daughter Julie Kasem and her husband filed that earlier conservatorship petition, claiming the retired radio host "has been isolated from his daughters, friends and other family" by his wife.
The judge ruled last year that Kasem was being well cared for by his wife, Jean Kasem.
Attempts Monday to contact Jean Kasem's attorney, Craig Marcus, were unsuccessful.
The petition last year claimed that daughter Julie Kasem and her husband, Dr. Jamil Aboulhosn, had been unable to check on Kasem's health even though her father signed papers in 2007 giving them the power of attorney over his heath care in the event he was unable to make his own health decisions.
They "have been prevented from exercising their duties" by Jean Kasem, who has been married to the retired radio host for three decades, the filing argued.
"There is no communication between Jean and us and his daughters," said brother Mouner Kasem. "We have no knowledge of how he is, what he's doing, if he's better, if he's worse, and we're scared that we'll never see him again."
Last year, Kerri Kasem said that her stepmother suddenly barred her sister, her uncle and some of Kasem's friends from seeing him. She said she was perplexed by the decision.
Kasem, who for decades hosted radio music countdown shows "American Top 40" and "Casey's Top 40," is suffering from Parkinson's disease and "may have early onset Parkinson's dementia," according to a court filing. He retired in 2009.
Besides the famed countdown shows, Kasem was also the voice of Shaggy in the cartoon "Scooby Doo" and an announcer for NBC. He was a popular DJ and occasional actor before "American Top 40" began in 1970.
Kasem's kids take stepmom to court
All-time great DJs
CNN's Alan Duke and Dana Ford contributed to this report.
