Everton scored in the last minute of stoppage-time to claim a 3-3 draw against Manchester United in the Premier League at Goodison Park on Saturday.
United, who did not field the former Everton player Wayne Rooney, looked to be cruising to a comfortable 3-1 victory after goals from Darren Fletcher, Nemanja Vidic and Dimitar Berbatov had erased Steven Pienaar's opener for Everton.
But with 90 minutes up, Everton scored two late goals, the first a header from Tim Cahill and the second by Mikel Arteta, to secure a point for Everton manager David Moyes's men.
Everton, who were third from the bottom of the table at the start of the day, had taken the lead on 39 minutes when a misjudged clearance from United defender Patrice Evra left Arteta clear on goal.
Arteta's effort was saved by Edwin van der Sar, but Leon Osman found the unmarked Pienaar who guided the ball to the back of the net.
But Everton's advantage was short-lived as United swept forward and found an equalizer moments later.
The Portuguese winger Nani curled a cross from the right into the danger area and Fletcher popped up to steer home the leveler.
United maintained their momentum after the restart and Nani was the creator once more, his pinpoint cross picking out Vidic whose downward header flew past Tim Howard in the Everton goal.
Victory seemed all but assured on 66 minutes when Paul Scholes split the Everton defense to release Berbatov, who controlled before burying a low shot beyond Howard.
But Cahill's header gave Everton hope and moments later Arteta's deflected shot flew in to give the home side an improbable point in what was Sir Alex Ferguson's 700th Premier League game as a manager.
Ferguson said: "Football can do that to you. In a game of a completely comfortable position we've thrown it away, simple as that."
Meanwhile Premiership leaders Chelsea maintained their perfect start to the season with a 3-1 win over West Ham.
Two goals from Michael Essien and a Salomon Kalou strike helped the Blues to a relatively comfortable win against a struggling West Ham at Upton Park, East London.
Carlo Ancelotti's men preserved their two-point lead at the top of the table with their fourth win of the season, condemning West Ham to their fourth defeat and a place at the bottom of the table.
Arsenal stayed in touch at the top with a 4-1 rout of 10-man Bolton at the Emirates stadium in North London, with summer signings Laurent Koscielny and Marouane Chamakh both getting on the scoresheet for Arsene Wenger's side.
Koscielny had fired the Gunners, second in the table,  into a 1-0 lead on 24 minutes but Wanderers hit back through Johan Elmander on the stroke of half time after good work by South Korea international Lee Chong-Yong.
Moroccan international Chamakh restored Arsenal's lead however, capitalizing on good work from skipper Cesc Fabregas.
Bolton's task was made harder when Gary Cahill was given a straight red card for a wild lunge on Chamakh before goals from Alex Song and and Carlos Vela sealed the points.
At Eastlands, Manchester City's faltering form continued as they were held to a 1-1 draw by Blackburn Rovers.
A dreadful mix-up between England goalkeeper Joe Hart and Kolo Toure saw City fall behind, Nikola Kalinic sneaking in to put Blackburn 1-0 up.
However City got back on level terms early in the second half when former French international Patrick Vieira netted a vital equalizer for Roberto Mancini's team.
Newly promoted Blackpool earned their second victory of the season with a 2-0 defeat of Newcastle at St James Park.
A Charlie Adam penalty and a late goal on the counter from DJ Campbell helped Ian Holloway's Tangerines to all three points.
