(CNN Student News) -- March 28, 2014
Today on CNN Student News, we'll report on a historic meeting between a president and a pope. We'll also explore several reasons why breakfast is going to cost more in the months ahead. We'll describe what it's like to search by plane over a remote part of the Indian Ocean, and we'll detail the heroics of firefighters in Boston.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What sources might you consult for a story about food prices?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What symbol on the British flag combines designs from English, Scottish and Irish flags?
2. What procedure was 16-year-old Alex Norwood able to perform on an umpire that may have helped save his life?
3. In what West African nation are officials trying to control an outbreak of the deadly virus Ebola?
4. What is the term for a company's first sale of stock to the public?
5. What state's governor declared a state of emergency, with dozens of people missing after a massive landslide?
6. What university's football players were told by a regional labor board that they could unionize?
7. What kind of fish is a California hatchery transporting down river by truck to help it migrate?
8. With what world leader did President Obama meet in Vatican City?
9. Many of the planes searching for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 are flying out of Perth, a city located in what country?
10. What iconic comic book crime fighter is celebrating his 75th birthday?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
