(CNN Student News) -- July 1, 2011
Download a PDF map related to today's show:
• Atlanta, Georgia
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
Leadership Unplugged
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Hi! I'm Carl Azuz, welcoming you back to another summer edition of CNN Student News. Got something really cool for you this week. We're talking about Leadership Unplugged.
This is a program that just wrapped up. It's a partnership between a group called 21st Century Leaders and the staff of CNN and CNN Student News; and what it does is bring about 75 of Georgia's brightest high school students to the Georgia Tech campus, where they spend a week learning about everything from journalism to, of course, leadership skills.
PRISSY STEWART, 21ST CENTURY LEADERS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: That's our goal, is to help them become more comfortable as leaders. You can tell as the week progresses they have come out of their shells, they have taken some risks and learned to work with people who are very different from them.
AZUZ: I had the honor and privilege of kicking things off. I talked a little bit about how I got to where I am, what we do at CNN, and some students then talked to us about their first impressions as the week started.
LEJOI LANE, SENIOR: I think that what stood out most to me was the fact that we got the chance to meet so many unique people and so many different genres of CNN.
TYLER MEUSE, SENIOR: Being able to sit down and talk to professionals one-on-one and ask them the most important questions.
BROOKE VAUGHAN, SENIOR: What stood out to me the most was Carl Azuz. His speech was great. I love how he asked questions and actually got the audience involved in us as students. He actually cared about our answers and cared to have a conversation with normal high school students.
AZUZ: As things got rolling, students learned about many different facets of media. We talked to them about some of the new technologies available to us. We talked about how social networking gets used in newscasts. These were their impressions of that.
EMILY CHO, SENIOR: I learned a lot about how you have to balance between the social media and what actual news is. It's a big question as to which one comes first: determining what your audience wants to hear and what they need to hear.
GRACE LITTLE, SENIOR: This panel showed me just how much social media influences the way news gets around the world, especially in areas that don't allow CNN to have cameras on the ground. It's truly essential in making accurate news reporting.
PHILIP MUSEY, SENIOR: I learned that CNN uses Twitter a lot. You hear a lot about younger generations using Facebook, but Twitter is pretty well known and well used at CNN.
AZUZ: A big highlight of this conference happened right here at the CNN Center in Atlanta, Georgia. Students got to listen to a dinner panel of CNN talent and executives, and they heard a few things about work and life.
OLA RICHARDSON, JUNIOR: Something I really learned is that the friends you get here are the friends that you will need in life.
VICTORIA PARKS, JUNIOR: Definitely that just be yourself and you can be whoever you want to be, and you can do whatever you want to do. Just follow your dreams and pursue yourself.
RED DENTY, JUNIOR: Keep working at it. If you want to work in video broadcasting, you have to start low and work your way up.
CHANDLER BARRE, JUNIOR: You have to have your hook and the one thing that sets yourself apart from everybody else, and make yourself the one that is remembered.
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for the Shoutout! Who is credited with saying, "Leadership and learning are indispensable to each other"? If you think you know it, shout it out! Is it: A) Mahatma Gandhi, B) John F. Kennedy, C) Martin Luther King Jr. or D) Abraham Lincoln? You've got three seconds -- GO! That quote about leadership comes from former U.S. President John F. Kennedy. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Leadership Unplugged
AZUZ: Of course, the name of the program: Leadership Unplugged. A big focus is learning what it takes to be a leader. Here's what students said about that in their own words.
GABRIELLE PUYAT, GRADUATED AS A JUNIOR: You have to be able to connect with all different kinds of people. And not everyone's going to like you; you're not going to like everyone. But if you have the ability to communicate and cooperate, then you can lead.
FIRST BORN, JUNIOR: I think leadership is the ability to stand out above other people and give them a sense of belonging. As a leader, I don't think that you're able to have everyone like you.
MACHMUD MAKHMUDOV, JUNIOR: If you want to be exceptional and create something and be really successful, you really need to persevere as a leader. And know that even though you might be going through tough times, in the end, true leaders do what it takes to be successful.
AZUZ: This was the 6th year for Leadership Unplugged, but this was the first year that some of the students actually got to go on the air live on a CNN network. A few of the students were interviewed by Carlos Montero, an anchor with CNN en Espanol.
CAMILA DONOSO, SENIOR: He just asked us about how we liked it and everyone was a little nervous. He said it was good. The captions were really funny because it said, you know, "young leaders changing the world." And we're like, "Oh my God!" But if you think about it, we are, because we're making a difference.
Winners
AZUZ: These 75 students were divided into groups and they were given a project to work on throughout the week. That project was to pitch a story to a panel of CNN executives, so a little bit intimidating there. But they were scored on their pitch, and they were scored on things like the presentation itself, how creative the story was, how balanced the story was. And the winning pitch was a story about illegal immigration in the United States. Some members of that winning group talked to us about what it was like to win.
JUSTIN WHITE, JUNIOR: I was actually afraid that we hadn't won, but when they called our name, I just knew we had it.
ADEOLA ADENIRAN, SENIOR: Yeah, I was really excited. But I knew that, like, deep down, that we might have a chance because of our title. Our title was really powerful: "Undocumented and Unafraid." It gave me a little hope there.
Goodbye
AZUZ: So, that was how the week wrapped up, and that is how we wrap up this special summer edition of CNN Student News. We hope to lead you back to CNNStudentNews.com, and that you'll plug in for more stories right here throughout the summer. Hope to see you soon. For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.
