Former Formula One world champion Jenson Button has told CNN that he believes the sport's decision to switch to Pirelli tires for 2011 will suit his style of racing.
The Italian manufacturer are producing tires that are more bio-degradable than previous years, meaning drivers need to place a greater emphasis on the way they handle their cars -- something that Button feels plays to his strengths.
With the new Formula One season about to start in Melbourne, Button told CNN Sport's Don Riddell:  "I am good to my tires, it is something I have worked on for many years.
Will new tires decide the Formula One title?
"For me it is important to be precise with everything I do, the steering, the throttle, the breaks," added the Briton.
"And with these new tires there will be more stability, which is something I really look for in a car, so hopefully it will really help me."
Button is taller than McLaren teammate Lewis Hamilton and the cockpit of the MP4-26 has been moulded to his specifications, in sharp contrast to last season when the 2010 McLaren was built around Hamilton's specifications.
Button said: "Last year was a little bit tricky for me to get into the car. It was built for Lewis, who is shorter than me.
"This new car is fitted around me so I feel a lot more at home. I have got my own steering wheel with buttons fitted exactly where I want them, which is a nice feeling.
"If you don't feel at home in a car, you don't feel part of it -- and you need to feel part of it to drive it well."
Button has already won one world title but believes he has the ability to add to that 2009 success and has not lost the desire to become champion again.
"Racing in Formula One, and trying to win, is the most important thing in my life at the moment and to win the world title again would be a great feeling," said Button.
"But I really don't know if that would be enough for me. You always want more and, at this moment in time, one more world title would be enough for me.
"But if I do win the world title this year, I think it would be very difficult for me to walk away from the sport."
