(CNN Student News) -- October 17, 2014
What is measured by the Saffir-Simpson scale? The answer isn't just part of today's Newsquiz; it's covered first up today on CNN Student News. Another science story focuses on the anniversary of a powerful earthquake and the preparations undertaken to guard against another one. And we explore whether U.S. strategy is working against the ISIS terrorist group.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. Pakistani activist Malala Yousafzai and Indian activist Kailash Satyarthi were recently selected to share what prestigious award?
2. The island of Okinawa is part of what country, which was hit this week by Typhoon Vongfong?
3. Who is the leader of North Korea?
4. The duffel bag is named for a city in what nation?
5. What is the name of the NASA drone that began as a project by Perdue University students?
6. In which chamber of the U.S. Congress are about a third of its 100 seats up for election in this year's midterms?
7. In which chamber of the U.S. Congress are all 435 of its voting seats up for election in this year's midterms?
8. What branch of the U.S. military operates the mysterious X-37B space plane?
9. A proposal in drought-stricken Santa Monica, California would limit each resident's water usage to how many gallons per day?
10. The Saffir-Simpson scale measures the sustained wind speeds of what?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
