University of Miami football coach Al Golden says his team is moving forward, despite allegations by an imprisoned former booster who claims to have spent millions on improper gifts, entertainment and travel for Hurricanes athletes.
"I think, if anything, it's going to bring us closer together," he said of the current team, which he said has nothing to do with the allegations.
Golden, who was hired in December, said that despite the scrutiny of the program, his team had its best practice yet Wednesday. The Hurricanes open their season at Maryland on September 5.
Inside the football program, "we are moving forward," he said.
The allegations were leveled by Nevin Shapiro, a onetime Miami businessman now serving a 20-year federal prison term for fraud. Shapiro told Yahoo! Sports that he showered dozens of Miami players with cash and jewelry, paid restaurant and nightclub tabs and supplied prostitutes over an eight-year period -- and that several coaches were aware of the activity.
Shapiro was arrested in 2010 on charges of overseeing a Ponzi scheme that prosecutors determined had totaled $930 million. He pleaded guilty to securities fraud and money laundering in September, and his accusations against Miami were part of his agreement to cooperate with prosecutors, his lawyer told CNN's "Newsroom" Wednesday.
Golden said that he is cooperating with the NCAA investigation and that part of that entails getting the "young people" to cooperate, too.
"We want to get to the truth," he said.
The coach declined to elaborate further, citing the ongoing investigations.
Once the NCAA concludes its investigation, Golden said, the school and his program will "act accordingly."
Miami Athletic Director Shawn Eichorst said in a statement Thursday that "these are not times for pity and reflection."
"There are tough times ahead, challenges to overcome and serious decisions to be made, but we will be left standing and we will be stronger as a result," he said. "I understand there are unanswered questions, concerns and frustration by many but this athletic department will be defined now and in the future, by our core values, our integrity and our commitment to excellence, and by nothing else."
Charles Robinson, who interviewed Shapiro for Yahoo! Sports, called Shapiro "a mixed bag as a human being," but documents and former players have backed up some of his allegations.
The NCAA, which regulates college sports, said it has been investigating Shapiro's claims for five months. NCAA President Mark Emmert said in a written statement that if true, the allegations show the need for "serious and fundamental change" in college sports, especially regarding the conduct of boosters and agents.
