Lionel Messi scored a hat-trick as Barcelona produced a mesmeric display of attacking football to rout Osasuna 8-0 in the Camp Nou Saturday.
The Spanish and European champions were coming off two draws against Real Socieded and AC Milan but were back to their very best against opposition rendered helpless by their attacking fluency.
Messi started the goal spree after just five minutes with new signing Cesc Fabregas, pushed up front with Pedro Rodriguez rested, adding the second to continue his fine scoring form since joining Barca from Arsenal.
David Villa made it 3-0 on the half hour mark before an unfortunate own-goal from Ruben Gonzalez summed up Osasuna's woeful night. Messi scored his second and Barcelona's fifth just before the break.
The goals continued after the interval and Xavi lobbed the visiting keeper for the sixth before Villa and Messi, with his hat-trick goal, wrapped up the scoring.
Earlier, Valencia maintained their 100 per cent start to the season with a 1-0 win over Sporting Gijon with Robert Soldado on target.
It left them top ahead of Barcelona, with Real Madrid set to join them on nine points if they beat Levante Sunday.
In Germany, Werder Bremen went top of the Bundesliga after a 1-1 draw at Nuremberg despite having Germany goalkeeper Tim Wiese sent off.
With Bayern Munich playing at Schalke Sunday, Bremen took advantage as they battled for a point despite losing Wiese after just 17 minutes for a bad foul on Nuremberg striker Christian Eigler.
Werder then took the lead through Turkey midfielder Mehmet Ekici after 24 minutes but Philipp Wollscheid leveled for Nuremberg in the second half.
Borussia Moenchengladbach are second only on goal difference after a 1-0 win at bottom side Hamburg, with Bayern a point further back.
In Serie A, Cagliari are the early leaders after beating promoted Novara 2-1 for a second straight win in the new season.
The Sardinian side went ahead through Thiago Ribeiro after 38 minutes and added a second through Joaquin Larrivey four minutes from time.
Japan striker Takayuki Morimoto scored a late consolation for Novara. Later Italian giants Roma and Inter Milan battled to a goalless draw in the San Siro.
