Nico Rosberg boosted his world title hopes ahead of the season finale in Abu Dhabi by holding off Mercedes teammate and championship leader Lewis Hamilton to win the Brazilian Grand Prix Sunday.
His victory cuts Hamilton's lead in the standings to 17 points, with double points on offer in the final round in a fortnight.
Rosberg, who started from the front of the grid after his 10th pole of the season, maintained his advantage over Hamilton throughout, the pair finishing over 40 seconds clear of third-placed Felipe Massa.
Hamilton, who had overtaken Rosberg under similar circumstances to take the checkered flag in the U.S. Grand Prix in Texas last week, was left to rue a mistake just before the second round of pit stops on lap 28 at Interlagos.
Staying out an extra lap in an attempt to leapfrog Rosberg through the tire changes, he spun off and lost several seconds.
Hamilton pulled back most of the deficit of over seven seconds -- but could not repeat his Austin heroics as his run over five straight victories was ended.
But a second-placed finish in Abu Dhabi will ensure Hamilton repeats his 2008 title triumph with McLaren.
Massa, who was given a five-second penalty for an infringement, drove a fine race in the Williams to delight his home supporters, while Jenson Button took fourth for McLaren.
Four-time world champion Sebastian Vettel claimed fifth ahead of the Ferrari pair of Fernando Alonso and Kimi Raikkonen.
But they were all playing second fiddle to the all-conquering Mercedes duo, with Rosberg polishing his credentials with his fifth win of the season.
"I was able to attack and control the gap to Lewis in the race," he said at the race presentations. "It all worked out so that is great and the support has been excellent."
Hamilton admitted his error had proved key, but realizes there is all to play for in two weeks time.
"I made a big mistake in the middle of the race but otherwise the car was superb and everyone did a great job," was the verdict of the Briton.
