Lindsey Vonn promising return to competitive skiing continued as she claimed fifth place in the women's World Cup Super-G at Lake Louise on Sunday.
Vonn, who placed 11th in Saturday's downhill race and 40th in the same discipline on Friday, finished 0.85 seconds behind Sunday's winner Lara Gut.
The 22-year-old Swiss star's fourth victory of the season was achieved in a time of one minute 22.86 seconds, 0.03 seconds ahead of Tina Weirather from Liechtenstein. Austria's Anna Fenniger finished 0.33 seconds back to claim third.
Vonn suffered a serious knee injury at the world championships in Schladming last February and her return to competition was delayed following a training crash last month.
But after a mishap-free racing weekend, the 29-year-old looks like having a realistic chance of defending her Olympic downhill title in Sochi next February.
"I'm really happy with my skiing. It's getting better every day," Vonn said.
"I know now that I can win and be on the podium. That gives me confidence and that was my goal this weekend. To be honest I don't know yet what races I am going to do in Europe. My focus is on the Olympics and with my knee the way it is, I am just not sure how many races I will do," she added.
"I want to put myself in the best position going into Sochi very confident and try to win. I will think about all this after this weekend and come up with a decision with my coaches."
Meanwhile in Beaver Creek, America's Ted Ligety's victory in the men's giant slalom on Sunday saw him become the first man since the great Italian skier Alberto Tomba in 1991 to win four consecutive giant slaloms.
Following a 30-minute delay for wind and snow, Ligety won in a combined time of two minutes 35.77 seconds, comfortably quicker than compatriot Bode Miller (two minutes 37.09 seconds) who finished second. Austria's Marcel Hirscher finished third.
"I feel like I skied well the whole way done considering the conditions are tough out there; it's pretty bouncy, Ligety said.
"I was able to arch the places I needed to arch. I was a bit surprised by the time difference because with the snow conditions right now it's not a feel-good course."
Read more: Lindsey Vonn's comeback speeds up
