University of Missouri head football coach Gary Pinkel has been suspended for a week and docked another week's pay after his arrest on a drunken-driving charge, the university's athletics director announced Thursday.
Pinkel, 59, was released on $500 bail after his arrest in Columbia, about 120 miles west of St. Louis, according to Boone County sheriff's department records. His unpaid suspension took effect Thursday afternoon, Athletics Director Mike Alden told reporters.
And when Pinkel comes back, he will have to donate his next weekly salary to the school's Wellness Resource Center, which presents alcohol-awareness programs to students. He will also have to issue a public letter of apology; perform 50 hours of community service; forfeit any bonus if the Tigers make it into a bowl game; and see his salary frozen for a year.
"He's a tremendous guy, and he's got great character and he was unbelievably remorseful, as I would expect him to be," Alden said. But Pinkel's actions were "certainly not consistent" with values of the institution.
"This absolutely goes against everything that we stand for and everything he teaches his players in regards to our social responsibilities," he said.
In a statement issued Thursday morning, Pinkel said he was stopped by a deputy after having dinner with friends and was "very disappointed in myself for my lack of judgment."
"Nobody should drink and drive, including me," he said. "My staff and I constantly reinforce with each of our players the importance of not putting yourself into a position such as this. I did not follow that here, and for that, I sincerely apologize to the University of Missouri, to our administration, to the Board of Curators and to our fans."
Pinkel is in his 11th season at the helm of Mizzou, which has a 5-5 record overall and is 3-4 in the Big 12 conference. Assistant coach Dave Steckel will lead the team into Saturday's game against Texas Tech.
Pinkel said he has apologized to players and staff for his conduct.
"I accept full responsibility for my actions and will abide by whatever course of action our leadership deems appropriate," he said.
