(InStyle) -- It's almost engagement season -- that time of year around Thanksgiving, the holidays, and New Year's when everyone seems to listen to Beyonce and Put a Ring On It. Click through the gallery to get all the details about 10 of the biggest and best sparklers ever to grace the left ring fingers of our favorite celebrities.
See even more celebrity engagement rings!
Elizabeth Taylor and Michael Todd
Movie producer Michael Todd proposed to Elizabeth Taylor with a massive 30-carat diamond ring. The couple married in 1957.
Jessica Biel and Justin Timberlake
Justin Timberlake proposed to wife Jessica Biel in December 2011 while vacationing in Montana with an 18-carat white gold and black rhodium plated ring. The setting featured two aquamarines on either side, Biel's birthstone.
Beyonce and Jay-Z
Jay-Z proposed to Beyonce with an 18-carat diamond ring; the couple married in 2008.
10 Non-Traditional Celebrity Engagement Rings
Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge and Prince William
Prince William proposed to his longtime girlfriend in 2010 with the same 18-carat sapphire and diamond ring that his father, Prince Charles, gave to his mother, Princess Diana.
Mariah Carey and Nick Cannon
Nick Cannon proposed to pop diva Mariah Carey with a stunning 17-carat emerald-cut pink diamond ring surrounded by 58 pink diamonds. The couple married in 2008.
The 50 Best Dressed Celebrity Brides of All Time
Melania Knauss and Donald Trump
Billion-dollar real-estate mogul Donald Trump proposed to Melania Knauss with a stunning 12-carat ring in 2004.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux
Justin Theroux proposed to actress Jennifer Aniston in August 2012 with an oval diamond estimated to be between 12 and 18 carats.
Grace Kelly and Prince Rainier III
Prince Rainier III of Monaco proposed to legendary Hollywood beauty Grace Kelly with a 10.5-carat square-cut diamond ring in 1955.
100 Memorable Celebrity Wedding Moments
Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt
Brad Pitt proposed to longtime partner Angelina Jolie in April 2012 with a rectangular diamond ring estimated to be more than 10 carats.
Anne Hathaway and Adam Shulman
Actor Adam Shulman popped the question to Anne Hathaway in 2011 with a 6-carat emerald-cut diamond ring by New York jewelry company Kwiat.
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
