Searching living rooms and closets for your eggs may be fun the first six times, but if the novelty's wearing thinner than a chocolate egg's foil wrapping, there are more adventurous egg trails out there.
Imperial Easter Nest Hunt (Schönbrunn Palace, Vienna)
For a traditional hunt, Austria's beautiful Schönbrunn Palace serves as the backdrop for the annual Easter market.
The highlight is an Easter egg hunt, but there are also workshops in marzipan sculpting and flower arranging.
Kids over 20 might enjoy the craft stalls and live jazz.
The Old Vienna Easter market, a short walk away, is equally worth a visit -- if only to see the enormous mountain of 40,000 painted Easter eggs.
Imperial Easter Nest Hunt; Schönbrunn Palace; April 19; 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Capella D.C. Easter Egg Hunt (Washington, D.C.)
This city-wide Easter egg hunt is organized by the Capella Washington, D.C. hotel.
From April 17 to 20, the hotel will post pictures of golden eggs hidden around the city on its Instagram, Facebook and Twitter feeds.
Once intrepid egg hunters have tracked down their golden prey and taken a photo of themselves in situ, they can call a number on the ticket inside the egg and find out what they've won.
Prizes include round-trip tickets from Washington, D.C. to Istanbul with Turkish Airlines and overnight stays at Capella hotels.
Capella D.C. Easter Egg Hunt, Washington, D.C.; April 17-20
Magical Egg Hunt on Table Mountain (Cape Town, South Africa)
The Easter Bunny, Easter Fairy and Mad Hatter lead the way on this high altitude egg hunt on top of Cape Town's Table Mountain at Top Station.
Egg hunters are provided with clue cards and at Mad Hatter's Tea Party the characters will reveal further clues to help visitors track down the hidden treasure.
The goal is to find the Easter Bunny, hiding somewhere on Table Mountain with an enormous chest filled with chocolate eggs.
Magical Egg Hunt on Table Mountain; April 20, 10 a.m.-1 p.m.; return cableway ticket from $19.50 per adult, $10 per child (4-17)
The Great Egg Hunt at Vaucluse House (Sydney)
Chocolate and hot weather are a recipe for disaster, but this Victorian-themed Easter egg hunt isn't all about the sweet stuff.
Participants start by designing their own Easter basket to use during the hunt.
Eggs are dotted around the beautiful grounds of this historic house, one of Sydney's last remaining 19th-century mansions.
The Great Egg Hunt at Vaucluse House, Wentworth Road, Vaucluse; April 20; 11 a.m.-noon, 1-2 p.m.; $14 per child
Easter Egg-stravaganza, Centreville Amusement Park and Far Enough Farm (Toronto)
Toronto's biggest Easter egg hunt takes place at this popular theme park and farm.
There's an Easter egg hunt and an Easter egg scramble.
Eggs are hidden in the strangest places, from the wheels of a tractor to the theme park's fire station.
The Easter bunny will join forces with the park's Beasley Bear to offer guidance to egg hunters, and there'll also be face painting sessions and Easter basket workshops.
Easter Egg-stravaganza, Centreville Amusement Park and Far Enough Farm; April 18-20; 11 a.m.-5 p.m.; $14 per person with promo code "eggs2014"
Great Egg Safari, Zoo Miami (Miami)
It's not just the Homo sapiens who get to experience some Easter-themed fun at Miami zoo -- the animals get their own Easter eggs too.
The zoo has been holding the annual Easter egg hunt -- or safari in this case -- for several years.
Hunts take place throughout the weekend, but there's also face-painting sessions and chances to meet the zoo's own Easter Bunny.
Great Egg Safari, Zoo Miami, 1 Zoo Blvd., 12400 S.W. 152 St.; April 19-20; 11 a.m.-4 p.m.; from $15.95 per adult (13+), $11.95 per child
Bad Eggs Easter Egg Hunt, the London Dungeon (London)
Fed up with cute bunnies and sickly sweet chocolate?
London Dungeon employs an "Egg-cecutioner" to provide clues to the locations of hidden "bad eggs," which reflect the area in which they're hidden.
The egg concealed in the plague room might be covered in leeches; you might spot a fuse sticking out of the egg hidden in the area dedicated to Guy Fawkes.
All participants get an Easter-themed sweet treat and a chance to win theme park passes.
Bad Eggs Easter Egg Hunt, London Dungeon, Westminster Bridge Road; April 5 -21, from £17.50 ($30) per adult over 16 years, £15.95 ($27) per child
The Easter Egg Hunt (Provins, France)
This French Easter egg hunt takes place in the historic town of Provins, in the shadow of its spectacular castle.
About 7,500 chocolate eggs are hidden throughout the town.
Participants must answer a series of historical riddles to find the chocolate eggs, which are then doled out by locals in medieval dress.
The Easter Egg Hunt, Provins Tourist office, Chemin de Villecran; April 20-21; 2-5 p.m.
Easter Egg Hunt, The Roof Gardens (London)
Participants get unbeatable views over the UK's capital as they explore one of its largest rooftop gardens.
While the gardens' Easter Bunny keeps an eye on the kids, parents can enjoy the Easter Chocolate Trio Cocktail, specially created for the occasion.
Easter Egg Hunt, The Roof Gardens, 99 Kensington High St., London; April 20-21; 10 a.m.-noon
The Big Egg Hunt NYC presented by Fabergé (New York)
Sadly, participants in this glamorous event don't get to take the eggs home.
More than 200 egg sculptures dotted around New York's five boroughs have been designed by famous artists and designers, including Tommy Hilfiger and Caroline Herrera.
Participants must first download The Big Egg Hunt NYC app, which provides clues related to locations of the spectacular, super-sized eggs.
Codes displayed on eggs are used to enter a drawing for the chance to win one of three $48,000 Fabergé pendants.
And, no, we don't know how much that would sell for on eBay.
The Big Egg Hunt NYC presented by Fabergé; until April 25
