The only thing that dawned when the official "Batman vs. Superman" title was announced on Wednesday was how much the Internet hated it.
For months, fans have referred to the upcoming "Man of Steel" sequel as just "Batman vs. Superman," a placeholder that also recognizes the fact that both superheroes are appearing on the big screen together for the first time.
But on Wednesday, the actual title was unveiled to be "Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice," along with the announcement that production on the project is now underway in metro Detroit.
Immediately, the Twitterati fired back.
"BATMAN v SUPERMAN: DAWN OF JUSTICE. Coming in September, to Lifetime Networks," chided Patton Oswalt.
"OK, I just clicked on 'Dawn of Justice' in a panic, thinking it was yet another Far Right Group," said @Scriblit. "Dawn Of Justice sounds like Steven Seagal's comeback movie," quipped @DoctorFluxx.
"Dawn of Justice? So THAT'S why Batman looks so sad," said @ElliottcMorgan, referencing the recently released first look at Ben Affleck's Batman. (Who, yes, does look pretty down.)
Another user thought "it makes it sound like a direct-to-DVD movie you'd find in a bargain bin," as The Hollywood Reporter's Borys Kit tried to remind the displeased masses, "it's always darkest before dawn (of justice)."
"Does anyone out there like the title?" Kit asked. "Anyone?"
Well at least one person does -- if he could only figure out why the studio insisted on taking the "s" out of "vs."
"The 'Dawn of Justice' thing is cool but having it be Batman 'V' Superman is annoying my OCD," tweeted Chris Stuckmann. "When I see the new title, I read it as 'Batman 5 Superman'. Help me!"
Others are more concerned that the movie's going to have some sort of secret, litigious spin.
"Oh my god. What if 'Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice' is A LAW MOVIE? And 'Batman v. Superman' is the lawsuit?" asked @Hello_Tailor.
If it is, the Warner Bros. press release Wednesday didn't give any indication of that. Along with the new title and new logo, the statement confirmed that Chris Terrio ("Argo") is writing the script, which we already knew would be directed by "Man of Steel" helmer Zack Snyder.
In addition to Affleck, Henry Cavill returns as Superman, and Gal Gadot is going to play Wonder Woman. Laurence Fishburne, Amy Adams and Diane Lane are all reprising their "Man of Steel" roles, and they'll be joined by Jesse Eisenberg as Lex Luthor, Jeremy Irons as Alfred and Holly Hunter in an unspecified, newly created role.
Once "Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice" finishes filming -- production will also take place in Illinois, Africa and the South Pacific -- the movie will arrive in theaters on May 6, 2016.
