LOS ANGELES, California (CNN)  -- Nadya Suleman, who gave birth to octuplets in January, will tell her story in a book, although no publisher has been found to sell it, her lawyer said.
In addition to her reality TV show, Nadya Suleman has met with a ghost writer for a book.
Jeffrey Czech also confirmed details of a "less-intrusive" reality show about Suleman and her 14 kids, although no U.S. network has been signed to carry it.
The advance money for the TV show deal will help Suleman pay her bills, Czech said.
"Obviously, she needs to do something more than just flip hamburgers all day," he said.
Suleman was set to sign an agreement with a ghost writer for her book Monday, Czech said.
While he would not name the writer, he said the two "hit it off."
In addition to the eight children born this year, Suleman has six other children. All 14 were conceived through in-vitro fertilization.
The TV deal was signed with the British division of EyeWorks, Czech said. Headquartered in the Netherlands, EyeWorks produces and distributes television programs in Europe, parts of South America, Australia, New Zealand and the United States.
Its U.S. productions include "The Biggest Loser," which takes overweight participants through what producers call "radical physical makeover without any kind of surgery."
"EyeWorks is a strong company and they did offer some money up front, which is obviously attractive to a woman with her financial situation," Czech said. He would not reveal terms of the TV deal or how much money was involved.
The show would be similar to what EyeWorks has produced in Europe, in which a camera crew does not follow the family every day, he said. It would, instead, record milestones and special events.
Suleman will handle the camera for much of the taping of her TV show, reducing the intrusion into her children's lives by television crews, Czech said.
Though he said the show has not been named, Suleman has sought to trademark her media nickname -- Octomom -- for a TV show and a line of diapers.
Suleman has said no to some opportunities to make money, Czech said.
She declined an offer from Vivid, a porn movie company, to star in its productions, he said.
CNN's Alan Duke contributed to this report.
