"Movies aren't an actor's medium...actors are just color in other people's paintings," Oscar-winning actor Kevin Spacey told CNN's Talk Asia.
"I think there's almost any actor whose been around for a while who can say this with absolute conviction that sometimes you go and see a movie that you've made and you know you made a better movie than they cut."
He hasn't turned his back on his profession, but the versatile performer who won two Academy Awards for his roles in "The Usual Suspects" and "American Beauty," has happily embraced the other challenges that have come his way.
From reviving the fortunes of The Old Vic theatre in London to production credits on a number of films, acting has now become just one of Spacey's numerous professional guises.
His latest venture is appearing in a joint production in China called "Inseparable" featuring Daniel Wu and Chinese actress Gong Beibi.
"I think there's no doubt that China is the next place for film-- there's no doubt -- and that collaborations, this kind of exchange of a Western actor coming to make a Chinese film is a very exciting step," he said.
After his Chinese experience he'll be focusing on film until 2012 when he will then lead The Bridge Project, a transatlantic theatrical production company comprised of The Old Vic in London and Brooklyn Academy of Music in New York. The company will be bringing "The Tempest" to Hong Kong and Singapore in March and April.
Longer term plans could see Spacey return to the stage, but as a singer. His 2005 biopic "Beyond the Sea" on 1950s crooner Bobby Darin was a labor of love where Spacey was able to perform the songs of one of his heroes. To promote the movie he even toured with a 20-piece big band across the U.S.
"I think it's great that actually Vegas wants to be able to bring back the headliner, and I think the nightclub act is one of the greatest things ever.
"But that to me would be to me kind of fun to do again at some point, because I love singing and I don't get a chance to sing as much as I'd like, so we'll see what happens."
