(CNN Student News) -- September 26, 2014
Not all STEM jobs are created equal. Today on CNN Student News, find out what the five highest-paying graduate jobs are in STEM fields, and learn what other professions will need workers in the years ahead. Also covered: the resignation of the U.S. attorney general, new U.S.-led airstrikes in Syria, and the potential health benefits of chocolate.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. How many countries are members of the U.N. General Assembly?
2. What is the name of the NASA spacecraft that began orbiting Mars this week?
3. After a dispute that lasted months, two men recently agreed to share leadership power in what South Asian country?
4. Name one of the world's two most populated countries.
5. Roger Goodell is commissioner of what U.S. organization?
6. What historic American document mentions the "pursuit of happiness" as a certain unalienable right?
7. In what civil war-torn nation did the U.S. launch airstrikes this week against the ISIS and Khorasan terrorist groups?
8. What nation, a border country of Syria, shot down a Syrian fighter jet that entered its airspace?
9. What U.S. Cabinet position is held by Eric Holder, who announced his resignation yesterday?
10. In what U.S. state would you find the headquarters of the United Nations?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
