Tiger Woods kick started his 2013 season on his favorite golf course with a seven-under 65 Friday at Torrey Pines lifting him to the top of the leader board in the Farmers Insurance Open.
Defying cold and wet conditions at La Jolla in California, the World No.2 carded a halfway total of 11-under 133 at the PGA Tour event.
It left him two clear of fellow American Billy Horschel, who battled to a 69 on the more difficult South Course.
Woods has won the tournament at the same venue six times and also famously claimed the 2008 U.S. Open, despite being handicapped by injury,
Woods, who began his campaign by missing the cut at at European Tour event in Abu Dhabi last week, the same fate befalling No.1 Rory McIlroy, showed that was a mere blip with inspired play on the easier North Course.
Starting from the 10th, his round took off with a birdies on the 14th and 17th and an eagle on the 18th, set up by a superb iron approach.
The American ace started his back nine with straight birdies and as the rain came down he continued his fine progress.
Two birdies came in his final three holes, sandwiching his sole bogey on the day.
Woods said he was delighted to have backed up his fine driving with good recovery play on the rare occasion he was off the fairway.
"I've got my short game back to where I want to have it," he said after his round.
"But there's a long way to go and this golf course is not going to get any easier with this rain," he added.
He had opened his campaign with a four-under 68 on the tougher South Course as defending champion Brandt Snedeker shared the first round lead in the $6.1 million event after a 65 with Korea's' KJ Choi.
Snedeker dropped back into the pack on four under while Choi was on six under after their second rounds.
On the European Tour Friday, England's Chris Wood shot a brilliant 64 to take a three-shot lead into the final round of the Qatar Masters at the Doha Golf Club.
Looking for his first victory on the Tour since turning pro in 2008, the 25-year-old Wood has the trio of compatriot Simon Khan, Swede Alexander and New Zealander Michael Campbell as his closest challengers going into Saturday's final round.
Wood, he made his mark at the 2008 and 2009 British Opens eagled the 548-yard tenth to highlight his round.
He has a three-round aggregate of 13 under-par 201.
"I'm very excited. I wouldn't say it was one of my best rounds, but I played very solidly and was giving myself loads of chances," he told the European Tour website.
"Obviously it's going to be hard. It's hard to win any tournament on the European Tour."
