A Canadian woman on trial for allegedly stalking Alec Baldwin described a romantic date with the actor that she says ended with sex and a promise of lifelong omelets.
Genevieve Sabourin, 41, finally had her chance to testify Wednesday in her trial after hearing Baldwin deny under oath Tuesday that he was ever romantic or sexual with her.
Sabourin's impatience earned her a contempt of court citation and 30-day jail term Wednesday morning as she repeatedly interrupted another witness, saying at times "I want to testify."
Sabourin was warned by the judge repeatedly during the first day of testimony Tuesday about her outbursts as she listened to a teary Baldwin deny having had a romance with his alleged stalker.
Sabourin, an aspiring actress, heckled, "You're lying!"
Her outbursts in the New York City courtroom continued Tuesday as the doorman from Baldwin's apartment building testified about Sabourin's April 8, 2012, attempt to visit the actor there.
The actor's wife, Hilaria Baldwin, who was then engaged to him, told the doorman that Sabourin was a stalker and that she would call police, he testified. Sabourin called Hilaria a prostitute and another derogatory term before leaving the building, the doorman said.
Baldwin, wife Hiliaria introduce daughter Carmen
She says she's not a stalker, but an ex-girlfriend of the "30 Rock" television star.
Sabourin began her testimony Wednesday afternoon, detailing what she said were long personal phone conversations with Baldwin.
Then she talked about February 18, 2011.
Baldwin picked her up at her hotel at 7:30 p.m. and the couple attended a Broadway play, she testified. Afterward, they shared an intimate dinner, eating off of each other's plate, she said. She drank chardonnay, while Baldwin had water.
They took a cab back to her hotel, where Baldwin suggested one last glass of water, she testified. The next several hours were spent in her hotel room where they made love and he made a promise, she said.
"I make the best omelets in the world and I'd be happy to make you omelets every morning for the rest of your life," she said he said.
Sabourin began crying at that point of her testimony, complaining how everyone finds their love, as companions, but that she now knows she made the wrong choice with Baldwin.
Baldwin left her hotel room the next morning, but later texted an e-mail address for her to use, she testified. She used it to maintain a relationship with romantic e-mails in which she said she gave "her heart and soul to him."
While they were apart, they engaged in phone sex, she testfied. Baldwin was very charming in the calls, she said. Some of the talk was about her moving to New York from Montreal to be closer to him, she said.
But then Baldwin started seeing his future wife, she said.
The incidents of alleged stalking were attempts at finding "closure," she said.
But Baldwin testified that she imagined the relationship, and she sent him numerous e-mails and voice mails along the way. CNN obtained copies of the e-mails.
"I am less than 10 minutes away from you tonight. Say 'I do' to me," one e-mail says.
In another e-mail, she said she was ready to get married.
"I need to start my new life with my new name ... in my new country, help my newly husband, you!"
In another e-mail, she admits defeat.
"I may have lost all the battles to win your heart over in the past two years, but I've learn (sic) so much," it says.
Wiping away tears, Baldwin said Sabourin's stalking has made him anxious and worried for his safety.
She showed up unannounced at his New York home on the day he proposed to his now-wife, the actor said.
Days later, she allegedly crashed an event the actor was hosting at New York City`s Lincoln Center.
Baldwin has admitted they had dinner once in 2010, but said that was it. They met through a mutual friend, he said.
Both Baldwin and Sabourin worked on the 2002 flop "The Adventures of Pluto Nash." Baldwin has also appeared in numerous other movies, including "Along Came Polly."
His past is checkered with various conflicts including an infamous berating of his then young daughter Ireland in 2007 as a "rude, thoughtless little pig," a run in with American Airlines over his playing Words with Friends on a flight, and various scuffles with paparazzi.
Unlike the actor, who didn't say a word about the case to reporters, Sabourin is basking in the media spotlight. She grinned widely as she shared her side of the story with a group of reporters.
"I'm not gonna take a reduced plea for a crime I have not committed," she said.
Sabourin has been arrested several times, including late last year for violating a court order by allegedly sending a series of tweets to Baldwin and his wife.
She was released from jail after a judge rejected a prosecution request for bail.
If found guilty on the stalking charge, she faces up to a year in prison.
Baldwin launches Twitter rant against journalist
CNN's Jane Caffrey, Nichelle Turner and Pamela Brown contributed to this report.
