Italian title hopefuls Juventus suffered another setback with a 3-1 defeat at Bari on Saturday night, coming on the heels of the Turin giants' European exit.
Cirro Ferrara's third-placed team remained five points behind Serie A leaders Inter Milan, who travel to lowly Atalanta on Sunday.
Bari, meanwhile, moved up into fifth place on goal difference above a group of five teams including Fiorentina.
Napoli are also in that bunch on 24 points -- 11 behind Inter -- after drawing 3-3 at Cagliari, who are one point further back in 11th place.
Juventus were bundled out of the Champions League after a 4-1 thrashing at home to German side Bayern Munich on Tuesday which meant the Bianconeri failed to get past the group stage of Europe's premier club competition.
They will be able to concentrate on domestic glory now, but will need to bounce back quickly to avert a continued slump, having ended last week so well with a 2-1 win against Inter.
Bari took the lead in just the seventh minute as former Juve youth player Riccardo Meggiorini blocked a clearance on the edge of the area and then his shot deflected into the net off Nicola Legrottaglie.
French forward David Trezeguet equalized in the 23rd minute after Bari goalkeeper Jean-Francois Gillet could only block Diego's shot, but the hosts went ahead again just before halftime with a penalty from Paulo Barreto, who was tripped by Italy defender Fabio Cannavaro.
Midfielder Sergio Almiron sealed his former club's fate with a long-range effort that eluded goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon in the 86th minute to give Bari their first win over Juve since 1990.
Napoli needed a last-gasp equalizer from Mariano Bogliacino which came five minutes into time added on to deny Cagliari in Sardinia.
Ezequiel Lavezzi and Michele Pazienza had the visitors 2-0 up after 65 minutes, but Cagliari hit back with three goals in the final 15 minutes through Joaquin Larrivey, Alessandro Matri -- his seventh in successive games -- and Brazilian striker Jeda.
However, Lavezzi was sent off for kicking a ball at Cagliari coach Massimiliano Allegri as tempers flared during injury-time, then Bogliacino's header denied the home team a fifth successive win.
