European champions Barcelona have agreed to sell forward Bojan Krkic to Italian club Roma for $17.3 million.
Barcelona have an option to buy back the 20-year-old for $18.7 million at the end of the 2012-13 season, but Luis Enrique's Roma can override the clause if they pay the Spanish champions a further $40 million.
Bojan's exit follows Thursday's announcement that the Catalan side had captured Chile winger Alexis Sanchez from Udinese.
The one-cap Spain international made his Barca debut in 2007, and scored seven times last season despite being a fringe member of Josep Guardiola's team.
Barca land Chile star Sanchez
"I want to be happy about football again. I am 20 years old and I want to continue demonstrating what I couldn't here," he told reporters on Friday after confirming the end of his 12-year stay at the Nou Camp.
"Especially this last year there has been a lack of confidence in me. I didn't get much continuity, and that hurts, but I am also aware of things and consider myself privileged to have been part of such a magnificent team. These were four great years. I take away the positive aspects."
Roma finished sixth in Serie A last season under interim coach Vincenzo Montella, the club's former striker who replaced Claudio Ranieri as boss in February.
Enrique, 41, was appointed at the Stadio Olimpico last month after a three-year spell as coach of Barca's B team.
The former Spain international spent eight years as a player at the Nou Camp between 1996-2004.
Diego Capel has followed his national under-21 teammate Bojan in leaving Spain, with the Sevilla winger joining Portuguese side Sporting Lisbon for $5 million on a five-year contract.
The 23-year-old became the 12th player to sign for new coach Domingos Paciencia, having helped Spain win the European U21 Championship in May.
Capel made his league debut for the Andalusian club as a 16-year-old in October 2004, and won the last of his two senior Spain caps nearly three years ago.
Domingos guided Braga to the Europa League final last season, losing to Porto, and was subsequently appointed to replace Sporting's caretaker manager Jose Couceiro -- who joined Russia's Lokomotiv Moscow.
Turkish club Galatasaray announced the signing of Brazil midfielder Felipe Melo on a season-long loan from Italian side Juventus on Friday.
The 28-year-old joins Sweden striker Johan Elmander and Uruguay goalkeeper Fernando Muslera in joining the Istanbul team, now coached by former Turkey boss Fatih Terim after finishing only eighth in the domestic league last season.
Galatasaray paid a loan fee of $2.15 million, and must deliver another $18.5 million to secure Melo on a permanent basis at the end of next season.
Scotland striker Kenny Miller is poised to make a quick return to Britain after passing a medical with English second division team Cardiff on Friday.
His former club Rangers had tried to re-sign him from Bursaspor, but the Turkish club rejected the Scottish champions' offer.
The 31-year-old scored five goals in 15 games following his move to Bursa in January on a two-and-a-half-year deal.
