The comedy gods have smiled on the world once again.
The Hollywood Foreign Press Association announced Tuesday that the dynamic duo known as Tina Fey and Amy Poehler will once again host the Golden Globes. But wait, it gets better. The pair will host the awards for the next two years.
"Tina and Amy are two of the most talented comedic writer/performers in our business and they were a major reason the Golden Globes was the most entertaining awards show of last season," said Paul Telegdy, NBC Entertainment's president of alternative and late-night programming, in a statement.  "We're elated they wanted to host together again and that they committed for the next two years."
Fey and Poehler hosted the 2013 Golden Globes to much acclaim and solid ratings. According to the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, the 2013 telecast had the biggest Golden Globes ratings in six years in both the 18-49 demographic and total viewers and was also the second highest-rated Golden Globes in nine years.
Golden Globes ratings biggest in six years: Fey, Poehler beat Gervais
The pair also made quite the splash with a comedy bit they did at the Emmys this year, heckling that show's host, Neil Patrick Harris. Their onscreen chemistry has led for plenty of calls via social media for them to host other award shows.
Fey has had some fun with the Globes and awards shows over the years on her now-defunct NBC show "30 Rock." On one episode the characters of Tracy Jordan (played by Tracy Morgan) and Jenna Maroney (Jane Krakowski) bantered about the Golden Globes.
"Well if you're OK talking about it, I need your help," Tracy said. "These reporters want to come do a story about me. They're from something called the ... Hollywood Foreign Press Association?"
"HoFPA," gasped Jenna. "That's the Golden Globes! The second most important awards in Hollywood. After the People's Choice Awards (looks at camera), where the fans are in charge."
The 71st Annual Golden Globe Awards will be broadcast live on January 12 from the Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, California.
Keep up to date with Awards Season 2014
