A picturesque New York town is all abuzz and ready for its closeup as the countdown to Chelsea Clinton's wedding starts.
Clinton, 30, is expected to wed investment banker Marc Mezvinsky, 32, on Saturday in Rhinebeck.
The former first family is guarding details of the upcoming nuptials like state secrets, and has not released any information. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton recently said she's "under very strict orders" not to talk about it.
The order seems to extend to those involved in the planning. A host of vendors contacted by CNN declined to comment, including a florist rumored to be involved. CNN could not independently verify the wedding venue.
The secrecy and silence have only fueled the speculation.
Residents of Rhinebeck -- population 4,000 -- are hanging up congratulatory signs on windows.
And talking to television crews.
And hoping the influx of high-profile visitors will mean a boost in the town's economy.
And ... well, you get the point.
Local media have been crowing that the couple will wed at Astor Courts, a posh estate built more than a century ago along the Hudson River.
The Beaux Arts building was one of the last buildings designed by the famous American architect Stanford White, according to the estate's website.
Lynn Lobotsky, a local florist, recently told CNN that she's seen crews working around the clock along a stone wall leading up to the estate.
"They even worked on Sunday," Lobotsky said.
Adding to the speculation, the FAA has declared a no-fly-zone around Rhinebeck on Saturday and Sunday. The restriction is for "temporary flight restrictions for VIP movement," the FAA said on its website. Read the FAA's Temporary Flight Restriction notice
Rhinebeck resident Dan Landa is taking it all in stride.
"With everything this wedding entails, I can't believe what's going to happen this weekend," Landa told CNN television affiliate YNN. "I can say I'll still treat it like a regular workday, regular old day in the life of me."
Is there any rivalry between the Clintons hometown of Chappaqua -- and the town 100 miles north of New York city where the nuptials will take place?
They shouldn't be, said resident Susan Cole.
"To be honest, the Rhinebeck area needs the $3 million more than the Chappaqua area does," Cole told YNN.
White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs said President Barack Obama will not attend the nuptials.
