For the second consecutive year, CNN International won the coveted 'Cable & Satellite Channel of the Year' at the 2014 Asian Television Awards in Singapore on Thursday. It was also named 'Cable & Satellite Network of the Year'.
The network took home five awards in total.
The Best News Program title went to CNN flagship program News Stream. Hosted by CNN anchor Kristie Lu Stout in Hong Kong and produced by Ravi Hiranand, News Stream is a daily hard-news show that uses technology and social media to give viewers a deeper understanding of the day's top stories.
Kristie Lu Stout was also awarded Best Current Affairs Presenter. The anchor and correspondent is among the network's most popular Asia-based faces, and also fronts CNN's monthly On China show.
Lu Stout has also led coverage of major breaking news stories for CNN, most recently covering the 'Umbrella Movement' pro-democracy protests from the heart of Hong Kong. This is the second Asian Television Award for Lu Stout during her 14 years with CNN International.
The CNN Freedom Project: Every Day in Cambodia, which exposed the horrors of child sex trafficking, was awarded Best Documentary Series. CNN's investigation, spearheaded by human rights activist and Academy Award-winning actress Mira Sorvino, uncovered an underground system specializing in the sale of pre-pubescent girls.
In the gripping documentary, CNN followed the story of three girls sold into sex slavery as 'virgins' by their own mothers. Every Day in Cambodia is part of the CNN Freedom Project initiative, which has been honored extensively for its ongoing efforts to bring modern-day slavery to an end.
Executive Vice President and Managing Director of CNN International, Tony Maddox, said: "After an extraordinary 12-month news cycle, it's an absolute honor to receive these awards and be recognized by our peers for the work we do.
"To be named both Cable & Satellite Channel of the Year plus Cable & Satellite Network of the Year is truly remarkable, and is a testament to the dedication and talent of our teams in Asia and around the globe. Kristie Lu Stout and the News Stream team live and breathe news, and are always willing to go the extra mile to tell the stories that matter. It's great to see that passion recognized in this way.
"I am also proud the CNN Freedom Project has been recognized again. Human trafficking is a shameful trade that must be stopped. At CNN we will continue to use the full range of our international resources to track and champion the story."
CNN International earlier this year won an award for its Typhoon Haiyan coverage as well as being crowned News Channel of the Year at the Royal Television Society Awards.
