Jose Mourinho's remarkable nine-year unbeaten home league record came to an end on Saturday as Real Madrid suffered a shock 1-0 defeat by Sporting Gijon which allowed Barcelona to take an eight-point lead in Spain's La Liga.
The Portuguese coach had not lost a home match since February 2002, a 150-match streak taking in his trophy-laden stints with Porto, Chelsea, Inter Milan and now Real.
His injury-hit team took to the field without top scorer Cristiano Ronaldo, in-form striker Karim Benzema, defender Marcelo and suspended key midfielder Xabi Alonso, though Argentina forward Gonzalo Higuain made a welcome return as a second-half substitute after back surgery.
Former Real star Ronaldo was honored at the Santiago Bernabeu before the match to farewell the club's fans following the Brazil legend's recent retirement, but Gijon -- placed a lowly 15th before kickoff -- ruined their hopes of an anticipated routine victory.
Those expectations rose when Ricardo Carvalho had the ball in the net in the fourth minute, but the veteran Portugal defender was ruled to be offside.
Miguel de las Cuevas, formerly at Real's local rivals Atletico, scored the only goal with a low shot that went in off the post in the 78th minute as Los Merengues were left to rue a series of missed chances.
Mourinho must now decide whether to bring back Ronaldo for Tuesday's Champions League quarterfinal first leg at home to English club Tottenham, with Real's hopes of a domestic crown all-but over with eight rounds to play after a similarly-depleted Barcelona side scraped a 1-0 win over Villarreal in Saturday's late match.
"We will have chances to win against Tottenham Hotspur if we play a solid game and don't have problems in attack. It wouldn't be dramatic to draw against them at home," Mourinho told Real's website.
"Luck plays a role in this game and our opponent had all of it tonight. Our only problem was the absence of creative players. Xabi Alonso will play on Tuesday and he's the only one who can change our style a little.
"We can earn a different result on Tuesday with the same players. Cristiano Ronaldo will play if he and his coach decide to take a risk. The decision of risking it belongs only to him and to me. I may risk it."
Barcelona started the match at Villarreal with top scorer Lionel Messi on the bench after missing Argentina's midweek friendly due to an injury worry, while captain Carles Puyol, key midfielder Xavi, winger Pedro were ruled out along with veteran French defender Eric Abidal.
Stand-in skipper Victor Valdes kept his side in the match with some important first-half saves, but the match turned when coach Pep Guardiola brought on Messi for midfielder Seydou Keita seven minutes after the interval.
The winning goal came, however, from an unlikely source in the 67th minute as central defender Gerard Pique showed good skills to chest down Sergio Busquets' header from Dani Alves' corner and volley into the net despite suspicions of handball.
Valdes came to Barca's rescue with five minutes to play as he did well to block a goalbound shot from midfielder Santi Cazorla.
Barca will return to the Nou Camp on Wednesday for the Champions League quarterfinal tie at home to top Ukraine side Shakhtar Donetsk.
Villarreal lost third place after Valencia won 4-2 at Getafe earlier in the day, bouncing back from two successive defeats as Roberto Soldado scored all four goals against his former club.
The Madrid side led after 12 minutes through Manu del Moral, but Soldado leveled a minute after the break from Juan Mata's pass.
The striker made it 2-1 on 64 from a Jonas assist and clinched his hat-trick soon after, while Mata was again his provider in the 77th minute.
Adrian Sardinero scored a late consolation for Getafe, who have slumped to 14th place -- five points above the relegation zone -- after winning just once in 14 games.
