(CNN Student News) -- April 23, 2014
This Wednesday, we cover subjects related to civics, science and animal behavior. Our first two reports center on Supreme Court cases, and our third examines the challenges still facing search crews more than a month after a massive landslide in Washington state. We also explore the lingering effects of a 2010 oil spill and show you how some people are recovering from that.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What might be some challenges associated with reporting on a Supreme Court decision?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. affirmative action
2. copyright
3. Gulf oil spill
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What decision did Michigan's voters make in 2006 regarding affirmative action in their state's public colleges? What decision did a lower court make regarding that vote? How did the U.S. Supreme Court rule on the lower court's decision?
2. What is Aereo? What arguments did the Supreme Court hear yesterday regarding Aereo? What do television broadcasters say about Aereo? How does Aereo respond to this argument? What is the debate around "public" versus "private" performance?
3. What natural disaster struck Oso, Washington, one month ago? What does the area look like today? What challenges exist for search crews? What progress has been made? How have crews been able to make progress? What has become the site of a memorial as well as a source of strength for the recovery effort?
4. What happened in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010? Which oil company was found to be partly responsible for the spill? How did it compensate some of those affected by the spill? How did the spill impact beaches near Orange Beach, Alabama? What evidence suggests that it continues to impact the environment there? What are some of the different opinions about the oil company's efforts to clean up the beaches?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion of affirmative action policies? Do you think that race, gender and national origin should be factored into college admissions? Why or why not? In your opinion, who or what should determine whether these factors should be used to admit students to public colleges? Why?
2. How do you think that the Gulf oil spill affected some lives and businesses in the region? Why do you think that some people chose to keep their businesses? Why might that not have been an option for others? What challenges might business owners face in recovering from any disaster?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
