Kansas City police said Saturday that they are glad the parents of a missing 10-month-old Missouri girl have resumed conversations with them.
"We couldn't be happier about it," police Capt. Steve Young said. "Their involvement in this investigation is critical."
A meeting was held Saturday evening.
Investigators have searched about 300 homes and apartments in the area around the home. Lisa Irwin hasn't been seen since Monday night.
Federal authorities joined police in the search effort this week -- which included an inspection of a landfill and a nearby creek -- speaking with neighbors and sweeping the area with metal detectors. Police said they have no suspects or solid leads.
Michael Lerette, a family spokesman for the parents of the missing infant, said police collected what could be forensic evidence in the case, but authorities have declined to comment on that claim.
On Thursday, Young said the parents stopped cooperating with detectives.
But a woman who identified herself as the sister of Jeremy Irwin read a statement late Thursday on behalf of her brother and Deborah Bradley, parents of missing the girl.
"We have never stopped cooperating with the police. We've been cooperative from day one and we continue to assist the police with the investigation," the statement by Ashley Irwin said. "The main goal has always been to find Lisa and bring her home. That remains the sole focus of the parents."
Lerette said that the parents had been exhausted from questioning at the police station. "I think it's just a lot of miscommunication, to be honest."
Lisa was last seen around 10:30 p.m. Monday, asleep in her crib, police said. Authorities were called to the home at about 4 a.m. Tuesday.
"It appears the suspect entered/exited through a bedroom window," authorities said in a statement. "Evidence at the scene leads police to believe the child has been abducted."
Jeremy Irwin told reporters that he found Lisa missing when he got home from work. "The front door was unlocked," he said Thursday. "Most of the lights were on in the house, and the window in front was open -- all very unusual."
The couple also said three cell phones were missing at their home, according to Young.
Lisa is described as 30 inches tall with blue eyes and blond hair, police said. She weighs between 26 and 30 pounds and was last seen wearing purple shorts and a purple shirt with white kittens on it.
The missing girl has two bottom teeth, a small bug bite under her left ear and a "beauty mark" on her right outer thigh. She had a cold with a cough, police said.
CNN's Ed Lavandera contributed to this report.
