Lawyers for New York Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez have until Friday to respond to a letter from the Major League Baseball Players Association seeking a dismissal of Rodriguez's lawsuit claiming the union did not adequately represent him.
The lawsuit stems from Rodriguez's recent 162-game steroid suspension and his efforts to get a Manhattan federal court to throw out the record-setting penalty.
The players union, which represented Rodriguez in his arbitration proceeding, claims in the letter that the "union's forceful advocacy" was demonstrated by the reduction of his suspension from the 211 games sought by MLB, among other things.
In a four-page letter addressed to U.S. District Judge Edgardo Ramos, dated Thursday, the union asked the court to throw out the claim against the union because Rodriguez "does not allege facts sufficient to overturn the [Arbitration] Award" and failed to provide evidence of a breach of the union's duties in representing him.
A spokesman for Rodriguez, Ron Berkowitz, declined to comment Tuesday.
In a federal lawsuit filed Jan. 13, Rodriguez accused the players union of acting in "bad faith" in representing him during the arbitration process. Rodriguez filed the lawsuit in New York's Southern District court against Major League Baseball and the union in an effort to get back on the field next season.
The players union has denied that allegation.
A pre-motion conference is set for February 14, and Rodriguez's lawyers were ordered to respond to the union's letter one week before.
CNN sought comment from Rodriguez's lawyers but has not received a response.
The suspension will not only cost Rodriguez $25 million in salary, but it also further clouds the groundbreaking career of a player who'll turn 40 in the 2015 season.
Rodriguez, one of 14 players suspended in the Biogenesis scandal, was the only one who appealed his suspension. Though he was suspended in August, Rodriguez played out the 2013 season because of the appeal.
Rodriguez, 38, is fifth on MLB's list of all-time home run leaders, just six homers behind Willie Mays.
Rodriguez has claimed he was the target of a MLB "witch hunt."
