(CNN Student News) -- May 2, 2014
Covered this Friday: Malaysia's government releases a preliminary report on a missing plane, and Nigerians search for the kidnappers of hundreds of girls. In the U.S., a former president joins American veterans on the mountain bike trail, and a Maryland educator receives one of the highest honors in his field. We also cover an act of kindness that made prom night more special for two teenage couples.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What message does it send when a president or other high-profile leader honors individuals for their contributions to society?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What current pope presided over this week's canonization ceremony for two previous popes?
2. What is one kind of college savings account that has tax advantages over regular savings accounts?
3. What is the nickname of a large area of the central United States that is most vulnerable to violent storms?
4. What term describes the rivalry between the U.S. and the Soviet Union that lasted from World War II until 1991?
5. What award is Sean McComb, a 30-year-old educator from Maryland, the 62nd person to receive?
6. What city is scheduled to host the 2016 Summer Olympics?
7. What Middle Eastern country held its first nationwide elections since U.S. troops left in 2011?
8. What deadly coronavirus has sickened hundreds of people primarily in the Middle East?
9. What former U.S. president is on a 62-mile mountain bike ride with military veterans?
10. What country's prime minister resigned after taking responsibility for his government's response to a tragic ferry sinking?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
