Thousands of demonstrators who gathered  in Cairo's Tahrir Square for a protest titled "Day of Justice and Cleansing" confronted two officers and sent them running late Friday, according to a witness.
The numbers in the square have swelled dramatically compared to last Friday's rally, in part because the Muslim Brotherhood has now joined alongside secular, liberal groups to put pressure on the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which currently rules Egypt.
Demonstrators stepped up their demands this week.
Muhammad Taman, a spokesman for the January 25 Coalition, told CNN the diverse collection of political groups are demanding Egyptian authorities bring ousted president Hosni Mubarak before a court for his alleged role in the deaths of hundreds of activists last January and February and on corruption charges.
If Mubarak is not prosecuted, Taman said, activists are prepared to organize a march towards the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, where Mubarak has been living on his estate since he stepped down from office on February 11.
"This is the army's last chance," Taman warned.
Mubarak's eldest son, Gamal, is expected to appear before the Justice Ministry's Illicit Profiteering Committee on Sunday.
Meanwhile, Mubarak's long-time chief of staff, Zakaria Azmi, was questioned and then arrested on Thursday by Egypt's general prosecutor. Azmi is being investigated for alleged corrupt activities. He was shown on Egyptian television Friday being escorted to a vehicle by uniformed Egyptian police while bystanders chanted, "Thief, thief!"
An army lieutenant colonel and a military police officer tried to walk to the center of square, where they were surrounded by demonstrators who chanted "get out, get out," said journalist Mohamed Fadel Fahmy, who witnessed the incident.
Within moments, members of the crowd began pushing the officers and knocking their hats off their heads.
"The officers got scared and started running and they were pursued," said Fahmy.
Demonstrators are protecting 15 army officers and soldiers who broke ranks with the Egyptian military and joined Friday's Tahrir Square protest, ignoring a warning from the top military brass that any uniformed troops participating in the rally would be arrested.
Some of the officers addressed the demonstration, demanding Egypt's ruling military council be replaced by a presidential committee of civillians.
