(EW.com) -- Is she a good Twitter girl gone bad?
Rihanna has taken to the 140-character site to offer up a steamy image of herself on Wednesday -- in which she strikes a strategically covered-up topless pose with the message, "Where have you been all my life?!"
The post has sent already-wagging tongues into overdrive, wondering if this is just another part of her alleged feud with Chris Brown's current girlfriend, model Karrueche Tran.
Last week, the songstress tweeted a feasibly harmless but potentially offensive picture of a packet of rice cakes dressed up in hoop earrings and shades with the caption, "Ima make you my b****." Rihanna's followers made the obvious link to Tran, who is half-Vietnamese.
Then, when one of Rihanna's followers asked her to save him some rice cakes, she responded with, "Kinda DRY." Was it all a thinly veiled dig? Maybe. Maybe not.
On her "Birthday Cake (Remix)" single with Brown, she does sing, "Come and get it / Sweeter than a rice cake / Cake worth sipping." And anyone who has ever eaten a rice cake knows that yes, they can be dry.
While we were busy decoding Rihanna's twitpic game, Tran retaliated with Nicki Minaj lyrics on her Facebook. "I win you loose!!! [sic] *nicki voice* I mean I got him, you got pictures of him" with a friend posting adding, "I'm Angelina, you Jennifer. C'mon, you see where Brad at." Jab? Again, maybe. Maybe not.
Tran tweeted that she doesn't even have a Facebook page, but that retreat didn't seem to phase Rihanna, who fire back song lyrics from Minaj's rival, Lil Kim: "I'm a leader, yall on some followin s***, comin in dis game on some modeling s***!"
Is this a full-on feud? It's all still a mystery. Either way, it's clear these two won't be trading friendship bracelets and braiding each others' hair anytime soon.
What do you think? Is this a war of words or is just some silly social-media back-and-forth?
See the full article at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
