New Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish's first taste of European football ended in a goalless draw with Sparta Prague in the Europa League.
The Scot led the club to three titles and two FA Cups in his first stint as manager between 1985-91 but never competed in Europe due to a ban on English clubs.
But his European debut won't live long in the memory in a game of few chances in the Czech Republic, though Liverpool will take a clean sheet back to Anfield for the return leg in a week's time.
Elsewhere, Belgian side Anderlecht lost 3-0 at home to Dutch neighbors Ajax. Toby Alderweireld, Christian Eriksen and Mounir El Hamdaoui all netting.
Bayer Leverkusen, who are currently second in the German Bundesliga, took a commanding 4-0 lead over FC Metalist Kharkiv in Ukraine. Sidney Sam grabbed two goals with Gonzalo Castro and Erin Derdiyok scoring the others.
Dutch champions Twente Enschede won 2-0 in Russia against Rubin Kazan with Luuk De Jong and Peter Wisgerhof on target.
Paris Saint-Germain snatched a late equaliser through Peguy Luyindula to draw 2-2 with BATE Borisov in Belarus.
German side Stuttgart took an early lead against Benfica through Martin Harnik but the Portuguese giants hit back to win thanks to goals from Oscar Cardozo and Franco Jara.
Ukranian's Dynamo Kiev won 4-1 in Turkey against Besiktas where former Chelsea striker Andriy Shevchenko was amongst the goals.
Lech Poznan, from Poland, will take a slender 1-0 advantage to Portugal for the second leg against Braga after Artjoms Rudnevs handed them victory.
High-fliers in Serie A Napoli were held to a goalless draw in Italy by Spanish club Villarreal. Salvatore Aronica was sent off for the hosts.
Two goals in two minutes from Wilfred Bouma and Ola Toivonen helped Dutch club PSV Eindhoven to salvage a 2-2 draw with Lille in France.
Scottish champions Rangers were on course for victory against Sporting Lisbon thanks to Steven Whittaker's header but Matias Fernandez scored a last minute equalizer for the Portuguese side.
Swiss club FC Basel raced into a two-goal lead against Spartak Moscow but a superb second half comeback saw the Russian side win 3-2 thanks to goals from Dmitri Kombarov, Artem Dzjuba and Zhano Ananidze.
Tomas Necid gave fellow Russians CSKA Moscow a 1-0 win in Greece against PAOK Salonika.
Portuguese club Porto won 2-1 at Sevilla in Spain while Young Boys, from Berne in Switzerland, beat Russian club Zenit St Petersburg 2-1 after an injury-time goal from Emmanuel Mayuka.
