European champions Chelsea breezed into the FIFA Club World Cup final with a 3-1 defeat of CONCACAF Champions League winners Monterrey on Thursday.
The English Premier League team's triumph in Yokohama, Japan set up a tie with Copa Libertadores winners Corinthians on Sunday.
Goals from Spanish duo Juan Mata and Fernando Torres followed by an own goal from Darvin Chavez secured a comfortable victory for Chelsea's interim coach Rafael Benitez.
Mexico's Monterrey scored a consolation goal in the 91st minute, striker Jesus De Nigris running clear and firing a low shot past Petr Cech.
The win ensured Benitez will be taking part in his third Club World Cup final, having lost to Sao Paulo as Liverpool manager in 2005 before leading Italian side Inter Milan to the trophy in 2010.
Benitez took from sacked former Chelsea coach Roberto Di Matteo last month. The Spaniard is battling to win over Chelsea supporters, with many still angry with the way fan favorite and former player Di Matteo was treated by the club's Russian billionaire owner Roman Abramovich.
Chelsea opened the scoring in fine style after 17 minutes, Ashley Cole playing a slick one-two with Eden Hazard before cutting back for Mata to find the bottom corner with a curling shot.
An early blitz at the start of the second half sealed Chelsea's place in the final.
Hazard was once again involved, bursting down the left flank before cutting back for Torres, who saw his low shot deflected into the back of the net.
Moments later Torres sprinted away down the same side and played a sublime pass to Mata, whose cut back was turned into his own net by Chavez.
Chelsea can now look forward to a tie with Corinthians, who defeated African champions Al-Ahly on Wednesday in front of 20,000 traveling Brazilian fans.
Monterrey will play Egypt's Al-Ahly in the third-place playoff prior to Sunday's tournament decider.
Cairo's Al-Ahly qualified for the competition by winning the African Champions League despite football in Egypt being suspended following the death of more than 70 fans in February's Port Said stadium disaster.
