Charlie Sheen plans to return to work on his hit sitcom "Two and a Half Men" by the end of February, his representative said Thursday.
CBS placed the show on "production hiatus" after the actor began rehab treatments in the wake of an emergency hospital visit last week.
"My understanding is that he will be back on the set at the end of February," Sheen representative Stan Rosenfield said.
The network ordered additional episodes of the sitcom "Rules of Engagement" to fill any gap in their Monday night schedule, but if Sheen returns as expected they may not be needed.
Sheen issued a written statement Wednesday thanking his fellow cast members, the show's crew and network executives for their support. It did not directly address the incident.
"I have a lot of work to do to be able to return the support I have received from so many people," Sheen said in a statement
"Like Errol Flynn, who had to put down his sword on occasion, I just want to say, 'thank you,'" Sheen said.
Sheen was "very, very intoxicated, also apparently in a lot of pain" last Thursday morning, according to a 911 call from a doctor who had just talked to the actor.
"Kind of weird, the phone call I received," Dr. Paul Nassif told the Los Angeles Fire Department dispatcher in the recorded call, which was released by the fire department Wednesday.
Porn actress Kacey Jordan has told media outlets that a two-day party preceded Sheen's collapse.
Paramedics went to Sheen's Los Angeles home and then took him by ambulance to a hospital, where he spent several hours.
Sheen's representative later blamed a hernia for Sheen's pain and ambulance ride to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. He did not respond to a CNN request for comment on the 911 call Wednesday.
Sheen's manager has said the actor is undergoing rehab at home, not in a residential facility.
Nassif, in an interview Tuesday with HLN's "Showbiz Tonight," said he couldn't tell if Sheen, who is his friend, was drunk. What he told the emergency dispatcher last week was different.
"I got him on the phone and he was very, very intoxicated, also apparently in a lot of pain," Nassif said on the 911 call.
He told the dispatcher that Sheen was saying, "Don't call 911."
Nassif is a facial plastic surgeon and is not Sheen's medical doctor, Nassif told HLN.
He later explained to HLN that he was protecting his friend by saying in Tuesday's interview that he wasn't sure Sheen was drunk.
Sheen and now ex-wife Brooke Mueller were married in Nassif's Beverly Hills home, Nassif said. Nassif's wife, Adrienne Maloof-Nassif, appears on "Real Housewives of Beverly Hills."
"They wanted to get married, and a mutual friend introduced all of us, and they said, 'Let's get married, can we get married at your house?' and that's how we met and soon after that we became very good friends," Nassif said.
Nassif drove Sheen home from the hospital, but he declined to provide details of their conversation.
"There were things he said I don't feel comfortable" disclosing, Nassif said.
At another point in the interview, Nassif added: "Obviously we all want Charlie to keep his sobriety. No one can push him into it."
CNN's Kareen Wynter contributed to this report.
