Nasser al Ansari is the CEO of Qatari Diar, a state-owned real estate investment company. Famous for its purchase of London's Chelsea Barracks, Qatari Diar was established in 2004 by the Qatar Investment Authority, to support Qatar's growing economy and to co-ordinate the country's real estate development priorities. It is now valued at $1 billion with 18 projects underway.
Al Ansari is a graduate from the University of Miami and was responsible for high profile projects such as New Doha International Airport and the promotion of private sector investment through public sector privatization.
Before being appointed as CEO of Qatari Diar, Al Ansari was at the office of the First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs as technical advisor.
He joins us on MME to talk about the vision for Qatar, how Qatari Diar fits into it and its investments outside Gulf in Morocco, Sudan, Syria, Egypt and Europe.
With oil prices hitting $88 this week, John Defterios begins by asking Nasser al Ansari about the differences he sees now compared to the 1970s when oil prices were also high. Any lessons learned?
Nasser al Ansari: I believe so. In the 1970s, local government here did not deal in a very sophisticated way with this wealth. But now we are fortunate with a high level of education and the reformations in government policies in this region. We now understand how to utilize this wealth and economical growth.
JD: I don't think most people know that you sit on one of the largest natural gas fields in the world and will likely be the largest exporter by 2010. This must give you great cushion to expand the Qatari Diar model.
NA: Although we have this and we are fortunate with this, Qatar has adopted a policy to diversify its portfolio from its natural resources to other investment opportunities and one of them is Qatari Diar. We are investing a lot in real estate, not just in Qatar but worldwide.
JD: In fact very close in the neighborhood as well. It's almost foreign policy strategy to invest in the poorer countries in the region. Is this to help the neighborhood develop alongside Qatar?
NA: I think with the knowledge and know-how that we have gained in this area of expertise, we would like to export it to other countries to help their economical reformations; to try to create business opportunities for their local businessmen and to create job opportunities for the people in that particular country.
JD: It's quite a radical departure say from the International Monetary Fund or World Bank giving loans or grants for development. This is turning the world upside down in your region, it is not?
NA: Yes, I would like to assure you at Qatari Diar we are not in the business of lending.
JD: You want a hard return.
NA: We want return but we always think of the people when we are investing in these countries. I mean we want to make sure that the investment we are making is there for the long-term. Qatari Diar has a policy: it's a long-term policy not short-term.
JD: Give me some insight on why Qatari Diar feels as comfortable in London with Chelsea Barracks as in Cuba, for example, with some of the projects you're undertaking. What makes you think you can pull that off?
NA: I think with the expertise that we have and with the strength that we have, we would like to showcase the strength of the people of Qatar and we want to pull the flag of the state of Qatar even across the Atlantic and we are determined to do so. We are a small country but with big ideas. E-mail to a friend
