The former secretary of state's most ardent supporters and organizers will meet Friday in New York City to discuss what now looks like an all-but-certain Hillary Clinton campaign for president.
Ready for Hillary, a pro-Clinton super PAC that has been organizing around a Clinton run for almost two years, is hosting an all-day strategy session that will bring together the different groups that have been working around a Clinton run since shortly after she left the State Department in early 2013.
The Ready for Hillary National Finance Council meeting -- which is being held at the Sheraton Times Square in New York City -- is part rally, part history lesson for the Clinton supporters and will bring together top flight Democratic strategists, longtime Clinton supporters and at least three people rumored to be the former secretary of state's next campaign manager.
Guy Cecil, the executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee; Stephanie Schriock, the president of EMILY's List; and Ace Smith, a political operative who worked for Clinton in 2008, have all been rumored as likely picks for Clinton's top campaign job. All three will sit on panels and discuss Clinton's future Friday.
Ready for Hillary has been the most high profile pro-Clinton super PAC that sprung up to boost Clinton between her years at the State Department and her eventual presidential run. Founded in 2013, the group has been focused on garnering grassroots support, building a sizable list of supporters and raising money.
The organization has worked somewhat like a ground and grassroots operations for Clinton, dispatching volunteers to different events and sending a campaign bus to drive across the country and rally support.
Ready for Hillary has also started to grease the wheels of state and local politics. The group has sold or traded its email list with over 30 state parties and donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to state parties and local campaigns.
But Friday's meeting -- and an eventual Clinton announcement - are somewhat of a going away party for Ready for Hillary and its young, excited staffers.
Multiple sources from the group told CNN that while Ready for Hillary will keep working until Clinton announces her candidacy, the group will wind down operations that day the former first lady announces.
"That is the point at which we would wind down because we are not going to have a separate and competing field and grass roots infrastructure across the country," said one source with knowledge of Ready for Hillary's plans. "Rather than continuing our efforts across the country, we would tell our supporters, 'Hillary has a campaign, go join it.'"
The day Clinton announces, the group will also make their supporter list available to the Clinton campaign, allowing their operation to reach out and activate the supporters Ready for Hillary have cultivated across the country.
As Ready for Hillary prepares to fade away, two other super PACs boosting Clinton are starting to ramp up.
Priorities USA, the super PAC tasked with big money fundraising and ad buying, is in a place to step up the moment that Clinton declares her run.
Although the group promised not to raise money for Clinton while other groups competed for donations around the 2014 midterms, organizers from Priorities have been meeting with big Democratic donors across the country and plan to contact those donors the instant Clinton announces.
The group is currently "sitting down and talking with donors" but not "making direct asks until there is a candidate in place," said a Priorities organizer.
"I think, once the sort of wheels are in motion, we will go back to the folks that we are meeting with and then there will be solid fundraising off that," the source said. "Once things really start to ramp up, that is when we get the checks in the door."
Representatives from Priorities USA, including strategist Paul Begala, executive director Buffy Wicks and the group's financial adviser Jonathan Mantz, will speak at Friday's event.
Correct the Record, a communications and research outfit that has been operating for over a year, is another pro-Clinton super PAC gearing up to run side-by-side with a Clinton campaign.
According to a source with knowledge of the group's planning, Correct the Record plans on ramping up in the coming months and tapping into the research they have invested in for months.
While the group will have a presence at the Ready for Hillary event -- founder David Brock will moderate a panel -- over three dozen Correct the Record donors will meet Friday in New York to discuss Clinton and the future.
Brock, according to the source, will tell attendees that he has decided his group will continue through the 2016 election and will use their rapid response and research to push the message of the eventual Clinton campaign.
