World number one Rafael Nadal made a safe transition to grass by reaching the third round at Queen's just three days after his sixth French Open triumph.
The Spaniard beat Roger Federer at Roland Garros on Sunday to seal his tenth Grand Slam title and negotiated his way to a 6-4 6-4 victory over Australian qualifier Matthew Ebden in London.
Nadal, who is preparing to defend the Wimbledon title he won last year by beating Tomas Berdych, showed signs of fatigue in his straight sets victory as he booked a clash with Radek Stepanek.
"I feel a little tired," Nadal said in a courtside interview. "I had a tough French Open. It's never easy at the start of the grass court season.
CNN blog: Will Serena's comeback fail?
"Everything is completely different, and you don't have a lot of days to adapt to the different surface.
"It's not enough, but I've progressed. I am a little bit tired because I had a tough Roland Garros and clay-court season but I am here to try my best like always."
Nadal will now face Radek Stepanek, from the Czech Republic, after he recovered from a poor start to beat 16th seed Ivan Ljubicic 0-6 7-5 6-4.
World number four Andy Murray dropped a set as he made it into round three after a 6-3 5-7 6-3 win over Xavier Malisse.
Murray, who was knocked out of the French Open at the semifinal stage by Nadal, was pleased with his performance against the Belgian world number 40.
"It was a tricky match today," Murray told the tournament web site. "I had a little chance at the end of the second set, didn't take it, and obviously he got back into it and started playing better but I managed to turn it around in the end.
"I felt I moved pretty well today considering it was my first match and it's good to get through."
Murray will now play 14th seed Janko Tipsarevic after he beat American Michael Russell 7-6 7-6 while former US Open champion Juan Martin del Potro beat Igor Kunitsyn, from Russia, 6-4 6-4.
Eighth seed Marin Cilic recorded a 6-4 6-4 victory over Frenchman Arnaud Clement and Andy Roddick lies in wait for Kevin Anderson after the South African beat American youngster Donald Young 6-2 6-4.
At the Gerry Weber Open in Halle, Germany, Canadian eighth seed Milos Raonic powered his way to the quarterfinals after beating Germany's Tobias Kamke 7-6 6-3.
Raonic, who told CNN Tuesday that he is looking forward to his first Wimbledon tournament, will now face Philipp Petzschner in the last eight.
Tomas Berdych, who was beaten in the Wimbledon final by Nadal last year, booked his place in the quarters after beating fellow Czech Jan Hernych 6-3 7-6.
