A late equalizer from Esteban Granero spared Real Madrid's blushes on Sunday night as they struggled to a 1-1 draw with bottom-placed Almeria at the Estadio del Mediterraneo.
Newly-crowned FIFA world coach of the year, Jose Mourinho saw his side labor without reward for most of the match against a side which has only won twice in the league all season.
A resolute performance from the home side was rewarded in the 60th minute when an effort from Jose Ulloa saw them take a shock 1-0 lead.
Spurred into action, Real fought back with Cristiano Ronaldo nearly finding the net after a mazy run, but was denied by the feet of Diego Alves.
But Almeria's goalkeeper could not do anything about Granero goal who fired a rocket into the roof of the net after receiving a lay-off from substitute Karim Benzema who came on for Kaka.
Meanwhile, Barcelona breezed past 16th place Malaga 4-1 at the Nou Camp to open up a four point gap over rivals Madrid.
Iniesta opened the scoring after eight minutes firing home off the post with a shot from the edge of the penalty area.
David Villa doubled the lead 10 minutes later as Barcelona teased and tricked their way through Malaga's defences.
Rodriguez made it three nine minutes before the break after Messi had carved open the defence with a perfectly weighted pass.
Duda did pull one back for the visitors in the 68th minute, but David Silva netted his second of the night and Barcelona's fourth seven minutes later.
Earlier in the day, Valencia overcame Deportivo La Coruna 2-0 to cement fourth place in the table.
They made sure of three points late in the game with goals from defender Jeremy Mathieu in the 77th minute and Pablo Hernandez who added a second in injury time.
Deportivo remain in 13th place.
In the Bundesliga, Hannover moved up to second after a convincing 3-0 win at Frankfurt.
Two early goals from Mohammed Abdellaoue in the 15th minute and Christian Schulz six minutes later saw the visitors seize control of the match which was never relinquished. An 88th minute strike from Didier Ya Konan rounded off a resounding victory.
Hannover are now 12 points behind runaway leaders Dortmund. Frankfurt remain in eighth place on 26 points.
At the other end of the table, the match between Kaiserslautern and Cologne ended in a 1-1 draw. Cologne took the lead after half an hour as Podolski found the target, only to see Moravek equalize in the 50th minute.
Colonge move up to 16th place one point ahead of Stuttgart, while Kaiserslautern find themselves in 10th place and are one of four teams currently on 22 points.
