Luis Suarez appealed to the Court of Arbitration (CAS) Friday against his four-month ban imposed by FIFA for biting during the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.
Suarez and his legal team spent five hours before a three-man CAS appeal panel in Lausanne in an attempt to reduce the suspension, which covers all football activity.
The Uruguay striker bit Italy defender Giorgio Chiellini on the shoulder during a World Cup group game in Natal last month.
It was the third time he had committed a similar offense and it drew an immediate response from football's world governing body.
With Suarez banned, Uruguay lost its last 16 match to Colombia and was knocked out of the World Cup.
Despite the punishment, it did not stop Spanish giants Barcelona from signing Suarez from English Premier League Liverpool in a $127 million deal last month.
Ushered away
Suarez did not comment to reporters either before or after the proceedings Friday in the Swiss city, but did take time to sign autographs for waiting children before being ushered away.
His connections are hopeful of cutting his ban by two months, meaning he would be available to make his Barcelona debut by the end of the month.
The CAS said it would issue its decision "as soon as possible, probably before the end of next week."
Suarez, 27, was top scorer in the EPL last season, winning the two major player of the year awards for his outstanding performances in helping Liverpool to runner-up spot in the standings.
He suffered a knee injury at the end of the season which threatened his participation in the World Cup, but he recovered to score two goals in a decisive 2-1 victory over England.
But in the final group game, his bite on Chiellini, captured by television cameras, provided the most notorious moment of the World Cup.
UEFA adopts spray
One of the biggest successes of Brazil 2014 was the use of a "magic spray" which was used by referees to mark the spot from which a free kick was taken and to make sure the defensive wall retreated the requisite distance.
UEFA said Friday that it would be used in all its competitions, including the Champions League, following successful trials in its recent under-17 championship in Malta.
"As we all saw at the World Cup, this spray was very useful in helping the referee in free-kick situations, and I am sure we will see similar results in our matches this season," said UEFA president Michel Platini.
The spray will be used for the first time in the UEFA Super Cup game between Real Madrid and Sevilla in Cardiff on August 12.
Celtic lifeline
In other football news Friday, Scottish champion Celtic has been handed a Champions League lifeline after UEFA punished Legia Warsaw for fielding an ineligible player.
Legia won the third qualifying round tie 6-1 on aggregate, but brought on Bartosz Bereszynski for the last four minutes of its 2-0 second-leg victory at Murrayfield Wednesday.
Bereszynski was supposed to be serving a three-game ban for violent conduct in last season's Europa League.
UEFA awarded the second leg game 3-0 to Celtic, handing them victory on away goals.
Legia, who say the problem arose because of the failure to fill in appropriate paperwork for Bereszynski, will appeal the decision.
