(CNN)From Liverpool to Los Angeles -- Steven Gerrard's move to California has been confirmed.
The former England captain will play Major League Soccer with LA Galaxy after deciding to bring an end to his 17 years at Anfield.
"I'm very excited to begin the next chapter of my career in the United States with LA Galaxy," Gerrard told the American' club's website.
"The Galaxy are the most successful club in Major League Soccer history and I am looking forward to competing for more championships in the years to come.
Gerrard, 34, is expected to arrive in LA in July where he will team up with Bruce Arena, the Galaxy coach.
The MLS club did not disclose details of how long Gerrard had signed for.
"My discussions with Bruce Arena and Chris Klein were extremely positive and the future of the team is very bright," said Gerrard, referring to the Galaxy president.
"I am committed to helping the LA Galaxy compete for trophies and to having an impact in Los Angeles and I will give my all for the club.
"In the meantime, I will continue to give everything for Liverpool for the remainder of this season before joining up with the Galaxy."
Speaking to Liverpool's in-house TV channel  last weekend, the player himself confirmed that the U.S. would be his next destination.
"I can tell the supporters at the moment that it will be America," he said.
"But I'm not over the line with any team just yet. I'm close and as soon as I know, I'll make the announcement, I'll do the bits and bobs that I need to do.
"Then we try to go and win a trophy and forget about Steven Gerrard for a bit."
Gerrard says his decision to move to the U.S. came after discussions with Brendan Rodgers, the Liverpool manager, in which he was told that he would no longer be a regular starter.
"There was more than one moment that has made me come to this decision, but I think the key conversation or moment was with the manager when he sat me down not so long ago and said it was time to manage my games for me and for the team," Gerrard said.
"I'm bright enough to realize it is the right thing for everyone, but when you've been a starter and a mainstay in the team for such a long time, it was a very difficult conversation to have with the manager.
"I accept it and I'll continue to give everything I've got, whether I'm starting, coming off the bench or whatever, but that was the key conversation that swung me to deciding to come away for a short while.
"I had an idea it was going to come at some time - I'm a human, not a robot. I'm not 24. I wish I was 24, I wish I'd met Brendan when I was 24 because I think I'd be sitting here talking about a lot of titles that we'd won together."
Gerrard, who has scored four goals in his past two games, made his Liverpool debut in November 1998 as a raw teenager.
He won 114 international caps for England before retiring after the 2014 World Cup where he captained his country.
While he never managed to win the English Premier League trophy, Gerrard did win eight trophies during his time at Anfield.
Gerrard won two FA Cups, three League Cups and the UEFA Cup in 2001.
But his greatest achievement came in 2005 when he led Liverpool to an unforgettable Champions League triumph against AC Milan in Istanbul.
Liverpool, which finished second to Manchester City last season, has struggled this campaign.
It lost the services of Luis Suarez, its top scorer, when the Uruguayan opted to join Barcelona.
Daniel Sturridge, the England forward, has missed most of the season with injury while players which joined the club in August have struggled to make an impact.
Liverpool is currently eighth in the Premier League, 17 points behind leaders Chelsea.
