Florida highway patrol troopers plan to talk to pro golfer Tiger Woods on Saturday to get more information about his car crash near his home, a spokeswoman said.
Woods was treated and released from a hospital after suffering minor injuries in a car accident early Friday in his central Florida neighborhood.
State troopers had tried to speak to Woods on Friday as part of a routine car accident investigation, but his wife said he was sleeping, said Kim Miller, a spokeswoman for the Florida highway patrol.
Troopers decided they would return Saturday afternoon, Miller said.
Cellphone pictures of the accident from CNN affiliate WFTV
A joint statement from Woods' publicist and Health Central Hospital said the golfer was in "good condition" after the accident outside his home.
Tiger Woods: A true sporting legend
The single-vehicle accident occurred about 2:25 a.m. in Windermere, a suburb of Orlando, according to police.
Woods pulled out of his driveway in a 2009 Cadillac SUV and struck a fire hydrant, then a tree, according to an incident report from the Florida highway patrol in Orange County.
Police Chief Daniel Saylor said two Windermere police officers were the first to arrive on the scene.
"There was Tiger Woods laying on the ground in front of the vehicle with his wife over him rendering first aid," he told reporters.
"He was in and out of consciousness with lacerations to his upper and lower lip," Saylor said. "He was mumbling but didn't say anything coherent."
Woods' wife, Elin Nordegren, told the police she was inside the house when she heard the accident. She said she went outside and used a golf club to break out the rear window of the vehicle, then pulled him from the SUV.
"According to the officers, yes, she was very upset," he said in response to a question.
But, he added, "Things like this happen all the time ... I understand he's stable and he's fine."
About 10 minutes later, Orange County fire and rescue arrived and took him to Health Central Hospital, where he was treated and released, he said.
The crash remains under investigation and charges were pending, the police report said. It also noted the accident was not alcohol-related.
The SUV, which was drivable, was towed and state troopers didn't take pictures of the scene, she said.
Saylor said the vehicle's front end was damaged.
The 33-year-old golf phenomenon has won the Masters tournament and the PGA tournament each four times, and three U.S. Open Championships.
He was set to host and play the Chevron World Challenge on Monday at Sherwood Country Club in Thousand Oaks, California. Woods has won the tournament -- which helps raise money for Tiger Woods Foundation programs -- four times.
Woods has won six times on the PGA tour this year after returning from knee surgery.
In a post on his blog last month, Woods said he was "absolutely thrilled" about his PGA tour, adding, "This has been one of my most consistent years on the PGA tour."
Woods and his wife have two children, ages 2 and a baby born in February.
CNN's Kim Segal contributed to this report
