Casey Stoner moved to the top of the MotoGP standings after world champion and previous leader Jorge Lorenzo crashed out in treacherously wet conditions during Sunday's British Grand Prix.
The Australian, himself a motorcycling world champion when at Ducati in 2007, continued his fine start to the season with new team Honda Repsol as he went 18 points clear following his fourth win in six races this season.
Stoner's teammate Andrea Dovizioso finished second at Silverstone to consolidate third place on 83 points, 15 behind Yamaha's Lorenzo, while veteran American Colin Edwards defied a broken collarbone to claim third place for his first podium this season.
"I was just happy to stay up on the bike, it was incredibly cold and I was so nervous as in these conditions it's so easy to crash," Stoner told the MotoGP website.
Lorenzo won last year's race but started third on the grid this time after Stoner dominated qualifying, setting the circuit's lap record on Saturday.
Stoner underlines dominance with Silverstone pole
The Spaniard started well and took the early lead -- but had surrendered that by the end of the opening lap as Dovizioso and Stoner went past him.
Another Honda rider, Marco Simoncelli, also passed the Mallorcan to claim third place but was unable to stay on the track as he slid off during lap 10 in his bid to get past fellow Italian Dovizioso.
Lorenzo had already departed the track by that stage, gesturing angrily after he flipped over the front of his bike and slid into the gravel on lap eight. It was the first time he had failed to finish a race since 2009.
"I feel disappointed because the crash was my own mistake. I think I could have fought for the victory with Casey," he said.
"I wasn't worried that Simoncelli was catching me. I was worried because Casey was going if I didn't overtake Andrea -- then I crashed."
Stoner, who has now won three races in a row as well as the season-opener in Qatar, finished more than 15 seconds clear of Dovizioso as he was able to lap tailenders Hector Barbera and Randy de Puniet, both on Ducatis.
But the Italian team had some good news as former world champion Nicky Hayden finished fourth, setting the fastest lap time of the race, while seven-time series winner Valentino Rossi was sixth to move above the injured Dani Pedrosa into fourth overall.
Lorenzo's American teammate Ben Spies also crashed out on lap 14, while Edwards' Monster Yamaha Tech 3 colleague Cal Crutchlow missed his home race after breaking his collarbone on Saturday.
The 37-year-old Edwards broke his during practice at the Catalunya Grand Prix, which forced him to miss his first race since moving up from Superbikes in 2003.
Meanwhile, Audi won the Le Mans 24 Hour endurance race for the 10th time in 12 years on Sunday, as its sole remaining driving team of Benoit Treluyer, Marcel Fassler and Andre Lotterer triumphed in the 79th staging of the legendary event.
They finished 14 seconds ahead of Peugeot's Sebastien Bourdais, Simon Pagenaud and Pedro Lamy after completing a grueling 355 laps.
Peugeot, which won in France in 2009 to end five years of German dominance, claimed the other podium place as Stephane Sarrazin, Franck Montagny and Nicolas Minassian finished third.
Audi had lost the car of two-time winner Allan McNish inside the first hour on Saturday when the British driver crashed, and defending champion Mike Rockenfeller's hopes ended after a big shunt that evening.
