"I feel a deep sense of regret, I couldn't protect my own child," Nur Hamida said. "He had to go out on the street to work."
As she speaks, she cradles her youngest child, rocking slowly back and forth. She used to have another son, 9-year-old Ardiansyah. He sang in the streets for money, like many impoverished children.
One day in January, Ardiansyah's 5-year-old brother came back home without him. A few hours later, Hamida heard horrifying news about a mutilated child: Authorities were trying to locate the head.
She instantly knew something was wrong with Ardiansyah.
"I asked some guy on the street if he knows how old this mutilated kid was. I was crying when I asked the question," she said.
Hamida became frantic.
"I started looking around under the bridge trying to find the head of this child," she said. "I told my husband, this mutilated kid is our son. I didn't know for sure, but my heart was just telling me that it was my son. I kept saying 'where's the head, where's the head' as I search through the grass."
The investigation led the police to a middle-aged cigarette vendor -- Baikuni. Police say he confessed to everything.
"He had asked Ardiansyah to have sex with him," said police spokesman Boy Rafli Amar. "When Ardiansyah refused, he got angry and strangled him. He sodomized Ardiansyah after he killed him."
Ardiansyah was not the only victim. Authorities say he confessed to raping and murdering at least 14 boys dating back to 1995. Baikuni's lawyer said he will not contest the charges.
Baikuni was no stranger to the community or his victims. He was nicknamed "Babe" -- which means father -- and was known for his kindness toward street children. He would regularly bring them in off the streets, provide them a comfortable place to sleep and eat.
No one suspected that this fatherly figure would be the same man police say was a serial rapist and murderer.
This case has shocked the Indonesian capital because serial killings, especially those involving children, are rare. But it has catapulted the plight of the estimated 12,000 street kids in Jakarta into public view.
"Ninety percent of the time the reason these kids end up on the street is the parents' financial condition," said Agusman, who owns a shelter for street children. "Rarely do we find parents intentionally sending their kids to the street. They have no other choice but to have their kids fend for themselves."
At Agusman's shelter, a group of boys jams on a drum set and a couple of old guitars. They are some of Ardiansyah's friends, all sharing in the dream of becoming famous rock stars.
All the boys spent time at Baikuni's house.
"It was always nice to stay at his house," one of the boys said. "I met a lot of my friends there."
He said Baikuni would bathe them, but like a father. He said Baikuni never molested him, but he was approached by numerous others on the street.
The boys at the shelter say they were shocked and terrified when they found out what happened to Ardiansyah.
Agusman said the problem is that Indonesian street children are especially vulnerable since there are no laws to protect them. Someone like Baikuni can set up a make shift shelter and not be questioned by the community or the police.
"We don't want to ban people from trying to go good," he said. "But the government needs to set some sort of a regulation for this kind of activity."
He also said the many poor families couldn't focus on their children or give them enough love and attention.
Ardiansyah, for example, was one of six children, living crammed in a single room. The family was struggling to survive. His mother said she trusted Baikuni, that he was like a brother to her.
"I have so many kids, I was happy to have someone there to help and care for one of my kids," she said. "I never suspected that he would do anything bad. My son was not the only kid who stayed at his house. I just told him to keep my son safe."
