Wayne Rooney has been visited by police investigating illegal phone-hacking by journalists, the England soccer star revealed on Thursday.
"Scotland Yard detectives came to see me earlier and showed me some documents, looks like a newspaper have (sic) hacked into my phone," the Manchester United striker wrote on social networking website Twitter, adding the tag "#Bigsurprise."
The UK Press Association reported that the paper being investigated is the Sunday tabloid The News of the World, which is owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.
PA said Rooney's agent Paul Stretford had also been targeted and was considering legal action.
Murdoch paper admits phone hacking as victim rejects payout
The newspaper is already facing many claims from celebrities such as actress Sienna Miller and former Cabinet Minister Tessa Jowell, and three of its journalists have been arrested since the inquiry reopened.
The original case saw its royal editor Clive Goodman and private investigator Glenn Mulcaire convicted in 2007, while former editor Andy Coulson quit his job as Prime Minister David Cameron's communications chief three months ago.
"Gonna get my lawyers to deal with phone hacking until end of season. So I can focus on helping MUFC win trophies. Thx for all ur support," Rooney added later.
His wife Coleen also let her feelings be known on Twitter.
"Newspapers hacking into phones!! Desperate and Disgusting!!!!" she wrote.
The Rooneys have particular reason to be aggrieved with the News of the World, which last September ran stories claiming the footballer slept with a prostitute while his wife was pregnant.
The 25-year-old has recently returned to form following a poor start to the season which culminated in him asking to leave United in October -- a move that angered the club's fans but ultimately earned him a lucrative new five-year contract.
"I made a mistake. You know, when I look back at it now, I'll say it again, how wrong was I?" Rooney told British newspaper The Guardian on Thursday.
"I'm willing to admit that. I've apologized and ever since then I have wanted to try to prove myself again to the fans. I feel I am doing that now."
United end Schalke's perfect home record
Rooney has scored 12 goals in 21 games this year, netting United's second goal in Tuesday's 2-0 win at German club Schalke that put the English Premier League leaders in a strong position to qualify for the May 28 final in London.
"I'm delighted with my form and I'm grateful to the fans for supporting me," he said. "I hope I've repaid the fans now. It's going to be a great end to the season if we can get to Wembley and win a Champions League final as well as the league.
"I am a lot happier in my life, a lot happier with the way I'm playing. It's almost been like having to settle down again, and I've done that now."
