(CNN)  -- Unfashionable Blackpool will be rubbing shoulders with the likes of Manchester United and Chelsea next season after beating Cardiff City 3-2 in the Championship playoff final at Wembley on Saturday.
The club from a famous English seaside resort attract home attendances of less than 10,000 fans to their tiny ground and only sneaked into the playoffs on the final weekend of the regular season.
But inspired by coach Ian Holloway, they fully deserved victory after a pulsating first half in which all five goals were scored.
"I'm so proud, not just for my team but for the area we come from," Holloway told Sky Sports.
"I cannot tell you what a difference this is going to make for the people in Blackpool.
"They're going to get so much money now from the Premier League. I can't put this into words. I'm bursting with pride."
Cardiff striker Michael Chopra gave them an early lead, but Blackpool's star player Charlie Adam equalized with a stunning free kick almost immediately.
Despite having the vast majority of possession, Blackpool fell behind for a second time when Joe Ledley finished off a neat passing move.
But the Seasiders quickly equalized again through Gary Taylor-Fletcher, who had hit the post just before heading the ball home after a corner.
To end a frenetic half, veteran striker Brett Ormerod forced home what proved to be the winning goal.
David Jones' men pushed hard for an equalizer after the break and Chopra hit the crossbar from outside the area while Ledley headed just wide, but Blackpool held on for a famous victory.
The club are best known for their exploits in 1953 when the legendary Stanley Matthews inspired their victory in the FA Cup final.
But backed by Lavtian millionaire Valeri Belokon, Blackpool have climbed from the third flight of English football to the elite in just four years and now stand to see their coffers boosted by £90 million ($130 million) in revenues from the lucrative Premier League.
For this reason, the Championship playoff is often billed as the richest match in football. Newcastle and West Bromwich Albion were already promoted to the top flight after claiming the automatic promotion spots in the regular season.
