Real Madrid Football Club has unveiled world-record transfer signing Gareth Bale to thousands of fans inside the Bernabeu Stadium.
The former Tottenham Hotspur winger, who cost the Spanish giants a reported $132 million (£85 million), was officially welcomed by Real Madrid President Florentino Perez at a press conference on Monday.
The 24-year-old said it was "absolutely amazing" to have joined the Spanish giants adding he hoped to help the team to success and win a 10th European Cup this season.
A suited Bale then changed into his new kit before stepping out on to the pitch to greet hoards of adoring Madrid fans.
Earlier, Perez praised the Welsh Intenational who has been named Footballer of the Year in England twice and scored 26 goals in 44 appearances for Tottenham Hotspur last season.
Read more: Bale becomes latest 'Galactico'
"We are in this temple of Real Madrid to incorporate a new man who knows very clearly what are the values of this club," Perez said.
"A man who has been chosen as the best player in the Premier League last season. A young footballer but with great qualities, committed to the sport and whose dream has been to be a Real Madrid player.
Read more: Transfer deadline day latest
"Gareth you are going to help us to make the legend of this club even greater and stronger. This is your stadium, your shirt, your badge and your fans. From today this is your home."
The Welshman passed a medical on Monday morning with flying colors according to the head of Real Madrid's medical team, Carlos Diez.
Read more: Award-winner Bale destined for greatness?
"As always, we follow a protocol and we have done all the investigations and all the cardiorespiratory and biomechanical studies and the truth is that he is in excellent physical condition and available for the coaching staff when they see fit.," Diez said in a statement on the Real Madrid website.
"I highlight the physical condition he is in. He arrives at the club a physical marvel and we think he will serve the club well," he added.
Bale's unveiling at the Bernabeu concludes this summer's most high profile and protracted transfer saga.
The Welshman has made no secret of his desire to join Madrid admitting it was a "dream come true" on Tottenham Hotspur's website on Sunday.
Blog: Is Bale money distasteful?
"I am not sure there is ever a good time to leave a club where I felt settled and was playing the best football of my career to date," Bale's statement read. "I know many players talk of their desire to join the club of their boyhood dreams, but I can honestly say, this is my dream come true."
Spurs chairman, Daniel Levy said it was never his wish to sell Bale, but the club were forced to bow to the inevitable.
"Such has been the attention from Real Madrid and so great is Gareth's desire to join them, that we have taken the view that the player will not be sufficiently committed to our campaign in the current season," Levy told Tottenham's website.
Bale has agreed a six-year contract with Madrid which will see him reportedly earn around $13.2 million a year after tax.
The reported $132 million (£85 millon) fee sees Madrid break their own world transfer record set when they signed Cristiano Ronaldo from Manchester United for $124.6 million (£80 million) in 2009.
