(AOL Autos) -- Magazines are full of beauty and health secrets with tips on how to improve your inner health and polish and paint your external persona. All of this designed to keep you feeling young.
With its low price, boxy-yet-stylish shape and must-have technology, the Scion xB is very youthful.
We think that the beauty magazines are missing out on the best way to feel young: drive the right vehicle!
New cars for a fresh start
No offense to the Toyota Camry, Honda Accord and Chevy Malibu, but it's almost impossible to feel young behind the wheel of an ordinary sedan, especially when every other car on the road is just like yours.
We've picked vehicles that are unique, different and even a little quirky. You are what you drive, and when you drive a spunky, youthful vehicle, that's exactly what you are!
So, here are our choices for the top 10 vehicles to keep you feeling young:
2008 smart fortwo pure coupe
Not since the original Volkswagen Beetle has a more perfectly youthful car been built than the smart fortwo pure coupe. This smart car has everything: it's cheap, it's fuel efficient, it's safe (check out the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety ratings), and best of all -- it is the cutest thing on four wheels. 'Nuff said.
Starting at $11,590
2009 Nissan Versa
An excellent choice for a safe, efficient car, the Nissan Versa is no stripped-down econobox and it has a European style that makes others take a second look. It's a genuinely comfortable, fun-to-drive cute car that will stand up to the rough treatment a young-at-heart driver can sometimes dish out.
Starting at $12,990
2009 Honda Civic Hybrid
Driving a Toyota Prius is a statement to your friends and neighbors that you're green; driving a Honda Civic Hybrid is living green, pure and simple. There's almost nothing less attractive than conspicuity. Give your inner beauty the opportunity to be green undercover in a subtle, stealthy Civic Hybrid.
Starting at $23,550
2008 Subaru WRX STi
Nothing gets the heart beating like 305 hp. Add all-wheel drive and hatchback functionality and you have the Subaru WRX STi. Skip those troublesome, time-consuming trips to the gym and just give yourself a workout flogging the STi around the back roads, or throw some golf clubs in the back hatch and make your tee time in youthful style.
Starting at $34,995
2010 Chevrolet Camaro
This one will take you back to your youth, the last heyday of the American Muscle Car. The 2010 Camaro is one of the most anticipated new cars due in the production pipeline, and anyone who drives one will be the center of attention. And that will make you feel young and beautiful.
Prices to be announced
2008 Mazda5
When a minivan just isn't mini enough, maybe the mini-minivan is the answer to your needs. With seating for 6, Mazda5 brings the capacity for carpooling without the style penalties of its larger minivan competitors, and fuel economy up to 28 mpg doesn't hurt either. Feel young without looking like a soccer mom.
Starting at $18,665
2008 Scion xB
With its low, low price, boxy-yet-stylish shape and must-have technology, the Scion xB makes a youthful statement just by showing up. Personalize your xB with accessories from Scion's catalog, or from the extensive aftermarket that has grown up around the car. The bonus is that the xB is a very capable vehicle, and a lot of fun to drive.
Starting at $16,420
2008 Toyota 4Runner
If you want to project an image of youthful vigor, muscularity, agility and strength -- without going over the top -- few vehicles do it as well as the Toyota 4Runner. That image isn't just on the surface; the Toyota 4Runner is as comfortable on the trail as it is on the pavement. You get timeless good looks and reliability in one package.
Starting at $28,415
2008 Jeep Wrangler
Is there a car more youthful and exuberant than the Jeep Wrangler? The iconic off-roader has been a symbol of freedom, agility and capability for decades. Drop the soft-top, hang on to the integrated roll bar and head out for points west. Just don't forget the sun block -- you want to look young as well as feel young.
Starting at $20,205
2008 Vespa S
It was cool in the late 1960's, and it's cool again today. The Vespa S is a modern interpretation of the 1969 Vespa Special and the 1967 Vespa Primavera. An eco-friendly 150cc engine powers the S efficiently and smoothly, with enough oomph to keep up with city traffic. Easy to ride, easy to park, easy to love, the Vespa S might be the coolest ride on the block.
Starting at $4,199
