(CNN)  -- French star Franck Ribery scored the only goal of Sunday's match as Bayern Munich went to the top of the Bundesliga with a home win over fourth-placed SV Hamburg.
It ended a long wait for the Bavarian giants who have not headed the German standings since winning the title in 2008.
Their poor form last season led to the departure of former Germany coach Juergen Klinsmann, but his replacement Louis van Gaal has also been under pressure after a slow start to the current campaign.
But since the midwinter break, Bayern have returned to winning ways and have been level on points with leaders Bayer Leverkusen, who had a better goal difference.
Leverkusen's 0-0 draw at home to Cologne on Saturday extended their unbeaten Bundesliga run to a record 24 games, but left the door ajar for Bayen to take advantage.
Their three-point haul on Sunday gives them a two-point cushion at the top but it was not until the 78th minute that they made the breakthrough with a fine goal from Ribery.
The influential playmaker left Hamburg goalkeeper Wolfgang Hesl no chance with a fierce shot.
Visitors Hamburg were still missing their new signing Ruud van Nistelrooy through injury and could create little up front.
In Sunday's other game, Hanover continued their slump with a ninth defeat in a row as defending champions Wolfsburg secured a 1-0 away victory.
Bosnian midfielder Zvjezdan Misimovic scored the only goal of the match for Wolfsburg to complete a fine week which saw them progress to the last 16 of the Europa League on Thursday.
In the Scottish League, Rangers all but sealed the title with a last-gasp 1-0 win over 10-man Celtic in the Old Firm derby.
Rangers' American substitute Maurice Edu struck in injury time to send the defending champions 10 points clear with a game in hand over their nearest rivals.
Celtic captain Scott Brown was sent off in the second half but they looked set to hold out for a point until Edu scored with the last kick of the game.
In the Spanish Primera, the battle for third place intensified as nine-man Valencia lost 4-1 at Athletico Madrid.
David Silva grabbed the opener on 20 minutes but Valencia defender Carlos Marchena was sent off for deliberate handball and Diego Forlan converted the penalty kick.
Sergio Aguero and Forlan scored further goals for Atletico after the break before the visitors had Luis Miguel sent off in the 81st minute and Jose Jurado added the fourth.
Earlier, Sevilla were held to a goalless draw by Athletic Bilbao and trail Valencia by three points.
In Serie A, champions Inter Milan won 3-2 at Udinese and maintained their four-point lead at the top over city rivals AC Milan, who beat Atalanta 3-1 in the San Siro.
A double from Brazilian Pato enabled Milan to keep up the pressure on Jose Mourinho's men while third placed AS Roma saw their title hopes slip away in a 2-2 draw at Napoli, having led 2-0.
