Fernando Torres finally ended his goal drought on Saturday as second-placed Chelsea won to boost the club's hopes of retaining the English Premier League title.
The Spain World Cup winner had gone 13 matches without scoring since his $80 million move from Liverpool at the end of January, but netted the London team's second after coming on as a substitute in the 3-0 victory over bottom side West Ham.
On top of that Chelsea streak, he had also failed to score in his last match for Liverpool and an international for his country in March.
The striker was mobbed on the sodden pitch by his relieved teammates, including Didier Drogba -- who lost his regular starting place after the 27-year-old's arrival in a record fee between British clubs.
"I kept working and it's thanks to all my teammates that I scored. There's less pressure for me now, now I can enjoy it," Torres said.
"The fans have been very patient with me. I had more and more anxiety for them than for me. Hopefully this is the first of many."
The victory helped Chelsea reign in leaders Manchester United, who had moved nine points clear with a 1-0 win over Everton in the opening game of the day.
United know that victory in their next two Premier League fixtures against third-placed Arsenal on May 1 and Chelsea on May 8 should clinch a record 19th title.
Those games come either side of the Champions League semifinal ties with Schalke, the first being in Germany on Tuesday.
Arsenal can also close to within six points again by beating Bolton on Sunday, after which the top three teams will all have four matches left.
Chelsea's European involvement was ended by United in the quarterfinals, and since then Torres has been relegated to the bench by coach Carlo Ancelotti while Drogba has helped reignite the club's championship hopes.
In a match played in pouring rain after Britain's recent spell of fine weather broke, man of the match Drogba was instrumental in setting up Chelsea's opening goal a minute before halftime.
The Ivory Coast forward's neat pass helped fullback Ashley Cole burst down the left and cut back a perfect cross for his England teammate Frank Lampard to lash into the net.
With conditions making defending difficult, both teams squandered chances before Chelsea defender David Luiz crashed an effort off the crossbar.
Torres replaced Drogba in the 76th minute, and he ended his miserable run eight minutes later with a composed left-foot shot after pivoting when the ball got stuck in a puddle.
France winger Florent Malouda settled the match in the third minute of time added on with his 13th league goal this season.
The result left
Mexico striker Javier Hernandez edged Manchester United closer to a record 19th English top-flight title on Saturday with a late winning goal against Everton.
It was the 22-year-old Hernandez's 12th league goal this season and United's 100th in all competitions, but the first the Old Trafford outfit had scored since the 2-1 European Champions League quarterfinal second-leg win against Chelsea on April 12.
United and Beckham top Forbes' football rich list
United made five changes from the team which suffered a 3-0 FA Cup semifinal defeat against local rivals Manchester City last weekend, while England defender Rio Ferdinand played in a league game for the first time since February 1 after missing Tuesday's 0-0 draw with Newcastle.
Hernandez had the game's first chance when his snapshot from 12 yards forced a smart save from Everton goalkeeper Tim Howard after neat play from Antonio Valencia and Wayne Rooney.
David Moyes' visiting side appealed for a penalty on 34 minutes when Jonathan Evans tussled with Toffees striker Jermaine Beckford, but referee Peter Walton waved played on.
Hernandez, also known as "Chicarito," was heavily involved but he prevented United taking the lead in the 37th minute when he inadvertently blocked Nani's goal-bound shot.
Everton rarely threatened, but came close to going ahead when veteran United goalkeeper Edwin Van der Sar produced a fine finger-tip save from Jack Rodwell's low drive on 68 minutes.
The breakthrough arrived with six minutes of regulation time left when Brazilian midfielder Anderson slipped a pass through for Valencia, whose deflected cross was headed home by Hernandez at the far post.
Tottenham Hotspur failed to climb above fourth-placed City and into the final Champions League position, being held to a 2-2 draw at home by West Bromwich Albion.
Peter Odemwingie's 13th goal of the season put Roy Hogson's side ahead after only five minutes before Russia striker Roman Pavlyuchenko netted an equalizer with a driven shot from the edge of the penalty area.
Spurs took the lead with England's Jermain Defoe's 100th Premier League goal just past the hour mark, but Simon Cox secured a point for West Brom with nine minutes left after his sublime curling shot from the corner of the box beat goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes.
Harry Redknapp's Spurs stayed in fifth position, one point behind City -- who travel to struggling Blackburn on Monday.
A hat-trick from Maxi Rodriguez helped sixth-placed Liverpool to a comprehensive 5-0 victory over League Cup winners Birmingham City.
Kenny Dalglish's Reds dominated throughout and went ahead in the sixth minute, when Rodriguez converted after visiting goalkeeper Ben Foster had failed to keep hold of Jay Spearing's shot.
Dutch forward Dirk Kuyt also scored a rebound to make it 2-0, before Rodriguez grabbed a second with a close-range volley.
The 30-year-old completed his treble with a well-struck left-footed shot, before former Chelsea midfielder Joe Cole completed the scoring with his first EPL goal for the club in the closing moments as Liverpool closed to within three points of Spurs, having played one more match.
Sunderland moved back into the top-10 after recording a first three-point haul since January 22 with a 4-2 defeat of strugglers Wigan Athletic.
Wigan went ahead through Mohamed Diame at the beginning of the second half, but Steve Bruce's team came roaring back through goals from Ghana striker Asamoah Gyan and young England midfielder Jordan Henderson.
A Stephane Sessegnon penalty made it 3-1 before Henderson doubled his personally tally after 76 minutes.
Substitute Franco Di Santo scored a consolation goal in the 90th minute for Wigan, who stayed inside the relegation zone in 18th place on goal difference below.
Blackpool could not capitalize on Wigan's defeat, being held to a 1-1 draw by visiting Newcastle United.
Ian Holloway's Seasiders went behind when Peter Lovenkrands pounced on a mistake by Blackpool captain Charlie Adam after 17 minutes.
D.J. Campbell rescued a point for Blackpool with his 11th top-flight goal of the season after 32 minutes.
Wolverhampton Wanderers moved off the bottom after a 1-1 draw in the home fixture with Mark Hughes' Fulham left the club a point above West Ham and one behind Wigan.
Steven Fletcher's 22nd-minute header put the hosts in front, before former England striker Andrew Johnson restored parity for Fulham within one minute of coming off the bench.
FA Cup semifinalists Stoke City ended a run of seven-consecutive away defeats with a 1-1 draw against Aston Villa.
No heart surgery for hospitalized Houllier
The home team were under the guidance of assistant coach Gary McAllister, with manager Gerard Houllier still recovering in hospital after being taken ill on Thursday.
Tony Pulis' Stoke took the lead when striker Kenwyne Jones flicked a trademark Rory Delap long throw beyond Villa goalkeeper Brad Friedel.
But Villa, who had won their two previous matches, responded when England striker Darren Bent headed his seventh goal in 11 games since a January transfer from Sunderland.
