Brazilian star Kaka is leading the campaign for David Beckham to stay at Italian giants AC Milan beyond his agreed loan spell.
Former England captain David Beckham has made an immediate impact with his contribution at AC Milan.
The England midfielder is due to return to the Los Angeles Galaxy in March but  playmaker Kaka said Beckham had already shown his star qualities.
The 33-year-old played 89 minutes of the 2-2 draw with Roma on Sunday following a friendly outing against Hamburg.
"David has shown that he is a player ready to run the extra mile," Kaka told a news conference in Zurich ahead of FIFA's world player of the year gala.
"The first matches showed quite clearly what his qualities are and his passing ability and his capacity to play well.
"Perhaps these first two months will lead to six months or to one year, to more contracts. I certainly would like to play more with him."
Beckham's advisers have stressed that there are no plans for him to stay at AC Milan beyond March 9.
However, former Galaxy general manager Alexi Lalas last week expressed fears that Beckham could be tempted to bring an early end to his time in the U.S.
AC Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti revealed Beckham's attitude and intelligence had won him a place in the starting side in Rome where he had been expected to start on the bench.
"He did well," said Ancelotti. "I chose Beckham to start because he proved in recent days to be a very intelligent player and serious.
"The appearance against Roma is a small reward for him because he worked very hard and has adapted well to the team.
"This was only his second game with us and he will improve. I believe everyone is happy to have Beckham here."
Dutch midfielder Clarence Seedorf said: "We have to compliment him. He has done a good job and he grew in the game. He still needs to improve but I think he can be very satisfied with what he has done after two months of not playing."
Roma stand-in captain Daniele De Rossi suggested Milan had made a shrewd move in capturing the 33-year-old.
"From a media standpoint Beckham is impressive," De Rossi said. "He is a nice guy, has a beautiful wife, has won so many trophies in his career and perhaps this penalises him as a player although I believe he has the feet and the determination."
Beckham, meanwhile, forecast that Sunday's double goalscorer Alexandre Pato of Brazil is destined for greatness.
"I have seen him in training and on the pitch. He is only 19 years of age and I think he can become one of the greatest players in the world," said Beckham.
Milan are nine points behind Serie A leaders Inter going into Saturday's home game against Fiorentina with Beckham seemingly set to retain his starting slot.
