(CNN Student News) -- August 15, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why do you think that some journalists are willing to potentially put themselves in harm's way to cover news stories?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these key terms or places you heard in today's show:
1. Egypt
2. natural born citizen
3. performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs)
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Who is the current U.S. secretary of state?
2. What are the eligibility criteria for U.S. president?
3. Angela Merkel is the leader of what country?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think the international community is so concerned about events in Egypt?
2. Why do you think that the Founding Fathers established the specific presidential eligibility criteria found in the U.S. Constitution? What is your opinion of these criteria? Explain.
3. Why do you think that performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) are illegal? Does hearing that an athlete has been accused of using PEDs affect your opinion of him or her? If so, how? If not, why not?
4. What information do you think world leaders might learn from interacting with citizens? How might a leader use this kind of information?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
Egypt
North America
Canada
Europe
Germany; Norway
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
