Two people died and 13 others were injured in four separate shootings in New Orleans early Tuesday, including one on Bourbon Street where costumed revelers were celebrating Halloween.
The first shooting, just after midnight outside a Bourbon Street nightclub, sent people running for cover, CNN affiliate WWL reported.
A 25-year-old man was shot several times and died at a hospital, police said. Seven other people, ranging in age from 19 to 50, were also injured.
"Apparently one or two people were shooting or shooting at each other for reasons unknown when eight people were struck by the gunfire," New Orleans police said in a statement. The injuries to those wounded in that incident appeared to be non-life-threatening, authorities said.
Police were still searching for a suspect or suspects Tuesday. Video from the scene showed evidence markers lying next to Mardi Gras beads on the street and the area cordoned off with crime scene tape as music continued to spill from nearby Bourbon Street bars.
"I've never seen so many people on Bourbon Street scatter to the sides," one woman, who was not identified, told WWL. "I've never seen that in my life."
She said she saw the shooting, but was "traumatized" and unable to run. "I was so scared," she said.
A second shooting took place about 1:45 a.m. on Canal Street, police said. A 19-year-old man was killed and three other people injured.
Officers heard gunshots while on patrol and saw three males running from the scene, police spokesman Garry Flot said in a statement. After a foot pursuit, two men were apprehended.
One of the men was questioned and released, but a 24-year-old faces charges of first-degree murder and three counts of attempted first-degree murder, police said.
Two other shootings took place in different locations later in the morning, Flot said, and a total of three people were injured. WWL said the two other shootings took place about 4 and 5:30 a.m.
CNN's Karan Olson Meilhan, Scott Thompson and Samuel Gardner III contributed to this report.
