Looks like they made it.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West have been married for 73 days, a significant number given that her last marriage, to basketball player Kris Humphries, ended after 72 days.
Kardashian announced that she was filing for divorce from Humphries in October 2011 after tying the knot that August, and the swift separation immediately prompted the hashtag #ThingslongerthanKimsmarriage.
But in 2014, the "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" star is once again a married woman and the mother of toddler North West. In honor of Kardashian's newest marital milestone, salutes from across the Web included The Huffington Post's headline "In shocking news, Kimye survived 72 days of marriage," while another user congratulated Kardashian with the tweet "Happy 73 days of marriage for #KimYe @KimKardashian @kanyewest."
Not that the couple isn't used to the attention.
From their courtship to Kardashian's pregnancy and their lavish wedding in Florence, Italy, on May 24, the pair have been the subject of countless headlines. West told GQ magazine that "The concept of Kimye has more cultural significance than what Page Six could write."
"Saying 'Hey, I like Kim' isn't as inspiring to people as us getting married," West told GQ of their decision to marry. "And anyone that's in a relationship knows that in order to get to the point to get married and then to be married and to then carry on, it needs that work put into it. Right now, people look at it and it's like, 'Wow, that's inspiring.' "
And her relationship with her husband isn't the only thing garnering Kardashian attention.
On Sunday, she posted a picture on Instagram of her and old friend Paris Hilton with the caption, "Reminiscing about the 1st time we went to Ibiza in 2006! @parishilton it was so good to see you & catch up!! Loves it lol."
The two were rumored to have ended their friendship in 2008 after Hilton reportedly said during a radio interview that Kardashian's backside "reminds me of cottage cheese inside a big trash bag."
Hilton later told InTouch magazine that she was joking and had apologized to Kardashian, but the former BFFs appeared to give each other plenty of space until they reunited for the Instagram photo while in Ibiza for designer Riccardo Tisci's birthday celebration.
