December 9, 2013
As South Africa holds a national day of prayer, CNN Student News shows how Nelson Mandela is being honored around the globe. We also report on the latest U.S. unemployment statistics, and we hear about the end of an ordeal involving an American detained in North Korea. Plus, we examine why companies compete to be involved with the World Cup.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What are some elements you could include in a video retrospective about someone's life?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Nelson Mandela
2. unemployment rate
3. World Cup
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is the current U.S. unemployment rate? Why is it significant? How many Americans are still unemployed?
2. What U.S. regions have recently experienced severe winter weather?
3. What country recently released American Merrill Newman after detaining him?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you know about Nelson Mandela's life? What do you think will be his legacy?
2. What do you think is next for American Merrill Newman, following his release from North Korea? Why do you think Westerners travel to North Korea? Do you think the detainment of some Americans will have an impact on this? Explain.
3. What do you think might be the benefits and drawbacks of being an official sponsor of the FIFA World Cup? Why do you think some companies want to use World Cup sponsorships to attract young people to products? Do you think marketing products to young people through the World Cup is effective? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
AfricaSouth Africa
South AmericaBrazil
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
