Brazil cruised into the quarterfinals of the men's Olympic football tournament with a 100% record, despite having a man sent off in Wednesday's 3-0 win against New Zealand.
The South Americans, five-time world champions but seeking a first gold medal at the Games, topped Group C with three victories ahead of second-placed Egypt.
Striker Leandro Damiao set up midfielder Danilo for the first goal in Newcastle and then scored his second goal of the tournament, before midfielder Sandro sealed it seven minutes after halftime.
Brazil, bronze medallists in 2008, ended the match with 10 men after Alex Sandro received his second booking with 15 minutes left.
Next up will be Honduras, who went through in second place from Group D following a 0-0 draw with Japan -- who finished top and will next face Egypt.
Will Brazil finally win Olympic gold?
European champions Spain managed a first point but still finished bottom after drawing 1-1 with Morocco.
Egypt ended Belarus' hopes of a place in the last eight with a 3-1 victory, as the Pharaohs bounced back from the earlier draw with New Zealand.
Needing a win to go through, Mohamed Salah, Marwan Mohsen and Mohamed Aboutrika scored in the second half before substitute Andrei Voronkov headed a late consolation.
Hosts Great Britain will take on South Korea after finishing top in Group A thanks to a 1-0 win over Uruguay.
Needing just a draw to go through, a goal from Chelsea striker Daniel Sturridge ended the South American champions' participation.
Senegal took second place in Group A following a 1-1 draw against United Arab Emirates.
Striker Moussa Konate scored his fourth goal of the tournament with a header just after halftime to ensure a quarterfinal clash against Mexico, with Ismail Matar having netted in the first period for UAE.
Mexico topped Group B after a 1-0 win over Switzerland in Cardiff, as striker Oscar Peralta scored the only goal in the 69th minute.
South Korea had to settle for second following a goalless draw with Gabon at Wembley.
In the women's tournament, defending champions the United States will play New Zealand in the quarterfinals on Friday.
Brazil, the runners-up in 2008, will face Japan while Sweden take on France and Britain host Canada.
Team GB, playing in the women's event for the first time, finished top of Group E after beating Brazil 1-0 on Sunday.
