In a time when the NFL has come under scrutiny in how it punishes its players, players and fans likely will be monitoring to see how Commissioner Roger Goodell might punish one of his own bosses -- an NFL team owner.
Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay pleaded guilty Tuesday to one misdemeanor count of operating a vehicle while intoxicated, according to CNN affiliate WRTV. Irsay also received one year probation and will continue treatment. He will also have to pay $368.50 in court costs.
It's anticipated that Goodell -- who works for the team owners -- could discipline Irsay before the start of the regular season now that the legal process is complete. The Colts are at the Denver Broncos on Sunday night.
Irsay did not comment when he left the Hamilton County courthouse Tuesday. He said when arriving at the courthouse that he appreciated the love and support he's gotten and promised he'd have a statement later in the day.
On March 16, Irsay was arrested and charged with operating a vehicle while intoxicated and possession of a controlled substance. At the time of the arrest, police said they found prescription drugs in pill bottles. Police said the drugs were not associated with any prescription bottles in the vehicle.
According to courtroom evidence, Irsay had the painkillers oxycodone and hydrocodone in his system when he was arrested.
The probable cause affidavit indicates that the Colts owner's speech was "slow and slurred," his eyes were "red and glassy" and his balance was "very unsteady." He failed a number of field sobriety tests, had trouble reciting the alphabet and told an officer "that he was having a hard time finding his house."
The following day, the Colts said in a statement that Irsay voluntarily reported to a rehabilitation facility. Irsay has previously said that he has struggled with addiction in the past.
Irsay is the first National Football League owner to have faced criminal charges since Eddie DeBartolo of the San Francisco 49ers was indicted on federal racketeering charges in 1997.
It remains to be seen how Goodell will handle the Irsay case. The NFL's Personal Conduct Policy states that it applies to all league personnel, including owners. The personal conduct policy also states that a first offense generally will not result in discipline until there has been a disposition of the proceeding. This is Irsay's first offense.
There have been varied punishments doled out in recent NFL discipline rulings against players. Cleveland Browns wide receiver Josh Gordon has been suspended for the season for violating the league's substance abuse policy. San Francisco 49ers linebacker Aldon Smith has been suspended for nine games for violating the substance abuse and personal conduct policy. Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice was suspended for two games after his arrest for domestic violence against his then-fiancée, who is now his wife, Janay. Currently pending is the case against 49ers defensive tackle Ray McDonald, who was arrested Sunday on felony domestic violence charges.
Goodell announced last week that the league was instituting a six-game unpaid ban for personnel who violate the league's policy on domestic violence.
A second domestic violence incident would be punished by a lifetime ban from the league, Goodell said in a letter and memo to the owners of the league's 32 teams.
The NFL had endured relentless criticism after only suspending Rice for two games, several months after video showed Rice dragging his unconscious fiancée from an elevator.
Without referring to Rice by name, Goodell acknowledged in his letter that he made the wrong decision in that case.
"I didn't get it right. Simply put, we have to do better. And we will," he wrote.
Irsay enters treatment after arrest
