(CNN)  -- Anne Frank, the young Jewish girl who detailed her thoughts and her family's life while hiding in an attic from the Nazis in Amsterdam, can now be seen in rare video that has been posted on the Internet.
Anne Frank got a diary as a gift shortly before her family went into hiding from the Nazis.
The only known footage of Frank, who died in a concentration camp weeks before World War II ended, can be seen on a special YouTube channel run by the Anne Frank Museum.
The channel manager, Ita Amahorseija, said the virtual museum was created "to not only give back to the people who know the story of Anne Frank, but to trigger people to want to know more about her story."
In the silent black-and-white footage, the 12-year-old diarist can be seen as she leans out the window of her home to watch her newly married neighbor leave the apartment building on July 22, 1941.  Watch the video »
That newlywed couple gave the film to Anne's father after the war.
Other videos show the chestnut tree that Anne saw every day from her window and the church bells that rang while she was in hiding. She mentions both of these in her diary.
Otto Frank can be heard on the site, talking about his daughter's diaries in a video excerpt made in the late 1960s before his death. He said she talked about and criticized many things, but he learned her real feelings only by reading her diary.
"I was very much surprised about deep thoughts Anne had, a seriousness, especially her self-criticism. It was quite a different Anne I had known as my daughter. She never really showed this kind of inner feeling," Otto Frank said.
The video of the happy young Anne has had more than 2 million page views since its posting a week ago.
That expansive reach has led other museums to use YouTube to reach a broader audience and to offer a taste of what's available on their Web sites.
The Victoria and Albert Museum in London, England, has one of the largest art and design collections in the world. On the V&A YouTube channel, you can see a master hat maker craft a haute-couture hat by hand, from start to finish, for designer Stephen Jones.
Another of the museum's videos shows a more whimsical performance piece called "Moving Monsters," in which people in giant paper masks dance and move to music and sound effects.
For science enthusiasts, there's the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History channel. Here, a scientist explains how flesh-eating beetles clean animal skeletons before they are put on display in the museum.
A few clicks over, at the feather identification lab, we learn how feathers were examined and tested to find out that Canada geese were to blame for forcing US Airways Flight 1549 to land in the Hudson River on January 15.
If you've ever wondered why Dorothy's ruby slippers are red, you might want to visit the Smithsonian's American History channel. The famous red shoes worn in "The Wizard of Oz" are in a display case in Washington, but you can also see them online. A videotaped curator shows how the shoes are placed on display and explains their significance in American history.
So along with all the funny and musical videos on YouTube, you can also find glimpses of history.
