Once again, a big thank you to everyone who took the time to share their links between India and Germany. We had hundreds of responses and are highlighting some of the best here.
We started the week by speaking to Craig Glenday , editor-in-chief of the Guinness Book of World Records.
He told CNN's Becky Anderson that the two countries have a rivalry of sorts when it comes to world records. It seems that every time a German sets a record, an Indian will smash it. For instance, the largest pen ever made, a record held by a German, was beaten within a year by an Indian.
"Himanshu" pointed out a linguistic connection between the two. German and Sanskrit have several similarities, and the grammar of both languages is amazingly similar.
"Sudheer" noted that many German tourists travel to India to learn more about practicing the ancient holistic medicine known as Ayurveda.
We also heard some personal stories. Two families -- one in Germany, the other in India -- got in touch with us to explain their connection via student exchange.
A woman in the United States whose family emigrated from India wrote in to say that she married a man whose family emigrated to the United States from Germany. Now she can't live without sauerkraut and he loves the Indian dish sambhar, she said.
Kurt Hammel pointed out another food-related link. Many German foods are flavored with spices that originally came from India. What good would bratwurst be without mace and nutmeg? What would strudel be without sugar and cinnamon? he noted.
There were also connections made in entertainment. We weren't too surprised to hear that many Germans are fans of Bollywood. Daniel Santos, a Brazilian living in Germany, said many German students love Indian movies and that there are many Bollywood dance schools there.
Sumanth Venkatesh from Bangalore found an automotive connection between the two countries. Volkswagen, which means the "People's Car," was originally made so ordinary Germans could afford cars. Sumanth said that's the same thing India's Tata Motors is trying to do.
We also spoke to award-winning author Anita Desai. Born to a Bengali father and German mother, Desai is a connection of sorts herself. She told us that even though she lives in the United States now, she carries India with her wherever she goes.
We love your comments so please keep sending them. Remember, you can make links through geography, music, business, food -- the list goes on and on. Whatever the connection, we want to hear it.
We also hope you'll take part in our next challenge: Finding the ways that Canada and the Ivory Coast are linked. Share your connections on our blog, and we'll choose the best ones to look at on Connect the World.
Happy connecting!
