Kaka converted a penalty in time added on to give holders Brazil a dramatic 4-3 win over Egypt who filed an official complaint after their Confederations Cup opener at Bloemfontein on Monday.
Kaka celebrates after his last-gasp penalty gives holders Brazil an opening win in their Confed Cup victory.
Substitute Ahmed al-Muhamadi was red-carded after handling on the goalline in a desperate attempt to deny Brazil -- and Real Madrid's recent $92million signing Kaka rifled home from the spot for his second goal of the game.
But the decision by English referee Howard Webb to award the penalty upset African Nations Cup winners Egypt.
They were unhappy that Webb initially blew for a corner but changed his mind after the fourth official, Australia's Matthew Breeze, spoke to him after reportedly seeing television replays.
"Since when do the regulations say it is a penalty based on the monitors or on the television?" asked Egypt's deputy coach Shawki Gharib. "Egypt is going to file a complaint against the penalty."
Brazil coach Dunga saw nothing wrong with the decision. "It was a clear case of a penalty," he said, adding that his team let a two-goal lead slip because they were tired.
"We had two tough (World Cup) qualifiers, 23 hours of travel and the time difference. The players have not been sleeping well so obviously we are quite happy with the win."
Substitute Giuseppe Rossi scored a brace to help world champions Italy stage a second-half recovery against 10-man United States and claim a 3-1 victory in their tournament debut in Pretoria.
South Africa are staging the tournament as a warm-up for next year's World Cup finals -- with Egypt struggling to qualify for 2010 after their recent 3-1 defeat against Algeria.
But it looked as though Egypt were going to deny five-times world champions Brazil an opening victory in their defense of the Confederations crown after a fightback that saw Mohamed Zidan also score twice.
Brazil were leading 3-1 at halftime with first-half strikes from Kaka (5 minutes), Luis Fabiano (12) and Juan (37) with Zidan heading home Wael Gomaa's cross on nine.
It was all change early in the second half when Egypt drew level with two goals inside a minute.
The first came when Sayed Moawad pulled the ball back from the left to Mohamed Shawky who blasted a superb strike beyond Julio Cesar. And Brazil were left reeling when Zidan pulled Egypt level seconds later.
Brazil coach Dunga took off Manchester City pair Robinho and Elano soon after and replaced them with Benfica midfielder Ramires and Milan striker Alexandre Pato.
And Kaka had the final say in a match played in front of thousands of empty seats despite FIFA president Sepp Blatter's criticism that organisers had not done enough to sell tickets for Spain's game with New Zealand on Sunday.
Brazil next face CONCACAF Gold Cup winners United States on Thursday before facing world champions Italy on June 21.
Egypt play Italy on Thursday before meeting the U.S with the top two from each group go through to the semifinals.
Italy were trailing 1-0 against the U.S. at the interval after Galaxy forward Landon Donovan fired his side ahead from the penalty spot after 41 minutes.
The Americans were already down to 10 men following the dismissal of Ricardo Clark who was given a straight red card after 33 minutes for a foul on Gennaro Gattuso.
But the introduction of Rossi just before the hour mark turned the game. The Villarreal striker blasted home from 30 yards to equalise on 59 minutes before Daniele De Rossi put Italy in front with 18 minutes left.
Rossi then added the finishing touch in injury time as the Azzurri moved joint top of Group B alongside Brazil.
