Hezbollah's leader plans to speak Saturday about the indictment of four party members in the assassination six years ago of Rafik Hariri, Lebanon's former prime minister.
The group's press office said Hassan Nasrallah plans to make remarks about the U.N.-backed Special Tribunal for Lebanon, which issued indictments and arrest warrants this week in the February 14, 2005 killing of Rafik Hariri and 22 others.
Hezbollah is a Shiite political faction in Lebanon that provides social services to its constituents, but it has long been regarded as a terrorist organization by the United States and as an ally of Iran.
It has had longstanding animosity toward the tribunal, based on the expectation that some of its members would be indicted as conspirators in Hariri's assassination, and Nasrallah has accused the group's arch-enemy Israel of the assassination.
The tribunal submitted to Lebanese authorities a sealed indictment and arrest warrants for an unknown number of suspects.
A highly-placed source in the Lebanese Army told CNN the four include Mustafa Badreddine, Hasan Oneisa, Salim Ayyah and Asad Sabra -- all Hezbollah members.
Badreddine -- who is the brother-in-law of Imad Mughniyeh, a former Hezbollah commander who was assassinated in Syria in 2008 -- is reported to be a member of Hezbollah's advisory council.
A U.N. source familiar with the tribunal said the people indicted include alleged perpetrators on the ground.
Two additional lists of indictments are expected later this summer and are expected to include the organizers and planners of the attack, the U.N. source said.
An indictment had been submitted in January and was then amended three times.
Daniel Fransen, a pre-trial judge with the tribunal, "ruled that the indictment shall remain confidential to help Lebanese authorities in fulfilling their obligations to arrest the accused," the tribunal said. It won't comment on the identity anyone named in the indictment.
Authorities in Lebanon will have to report to the tribunal within 30 days on the measures they have taken to try to arrest the accused.
Many Lebanese believe the killing revolved around the controversies over Syria's role in Lebanon, occupied at the time by Syrian troops, and the Damascus government's strong political influence in Lebanon.
People believe Hariri wanted the Syrians to withdraw from Lebanon and lessen Syria's influence, and many suspect that Syria and its ally Hezbollah went after Hariri because of his stance on this issue.
Those suspected connections of Hezbollah and the Syrian government to the killing have raised tensions in the country, stoking fears of sectarian conflict erupting in the ethnically and religiously diverse nation, which endured a civil war from 1975 to 1990.
Syria had thousands of troops in Lebanon and great influence in the country until mass protests after Hariri's assassination known as the Cedar Revolution forced their withdrawal. Syria has denied any involvement in the assassination.
Another was result of the anger toward the attack was the creation of the tribunal. The United Nations and the Lebanese Republic negotiated an agreement on the establishment of the body, based in the Netherlands.
CNN's Nada Husseini contributed to this report
