(CNN)Wednesday's attack on journalists at French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo has shone a spotlight on the dangers faced by satirists around the world.
Here, we revisit other artists and journalists previously featured on the network who have faced violence, imprisonment or exile because of their satire.
Ali Ferzat, Syria
"Break his arms so that he doesn't ever draw again."
In this 2013 piece by CNN columnist John Sutter, Syrian political cartoonist Ali Ferzat describes a 2011 near-death beating that he received from people he believes were henchmen of the Syrian regime.
Ferzat says they targeted his hands to stop him drawing cartoons critical of Syria's leader, Bashar al-Assad.
Read more: Cartoons that scare Syria's leader
Ali Reza Eshraghi and others, Iran
Newspaper editor Eshraghi was imprisoned and his newspaper Hayat No was shut down when in 2003 he republished a 1937 cartoon of U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt, that Iran's Special Court for the Clergy ruled was insulting to the memory of the Ayatollah Khomeini.
In this 2013 piece, Eshragi and others explain why they believe satire gives Iranian journalists a unique outlet to share ideas that are too dangerous to express in words.
Read more: Iran's cartoonists find new lines of expression
Kudzanai Chiurai, Zimbabwe
"It's more important now than ever."
Artist Chiurai stirred up controversy during the build-up to Zimbabwe's violent and disputed 2008 elections with a series of controversial depictions of president Robert Mugabe.
Chiurai's posters, which showed Mugabe in flames with horns on his head, raised the ire of Zimbabwe's ruling elite and got Chiurai threatened with arrest: He has been living in self-imposed exile ever since.
Read more: The artist who stood up to Mugabe
The dangers of being a cartoonist in the Middle East
"The one thing a tyrant can't stand is to be laughed at."
Robert Russell, the executive director of the Cartoonists Rights Network International, spoke to CNN in a 2013 interview in this piece exploring satire in the Middle East.
"If everyone is laughing at you, what defense do you have?"
Read more: The dangers of being a cartoonist in the Arab world
Remon Wang, China
"Panda is a national treasure, and 'national treasure' and 'state security' sound the same in Mandarin."
Wang's "Pandaman" cartoon, which featured a cuddly panda transformed into a menacing security agent, was wildly popular online.
His work is hugely popular with Chinese netizens, but as a result he says he's faced censorship, visits from state security agents and his account on social networking platform Sina Weibo has been deactivated over 180 times.
Read more: "Pandaman" creator finds political cartoon a risky business in China
More from CNN's archive:
Kenyan satirist Gado on drawing political fire
Video: Satirist Ikenna Azuike of "What's Up Africa"
Jordanian brothers' political cartoons break taboos
