The United States must beat Guadeloupe on Tuesday to guarantee a quarterfinal place at the Gold Cup, having suffered a shock first group-stage defeat in the CONCACAF region tournament.
Bob Bradley's team go into the final match of pool play in Kansas on the back of Saturday's 2-1 loss to Panama in Florida -- the nation's first such Gold Cup setback in 27 matches and the first in nine encounters with the Central American side.
"I don't think the heat was a factor. On the night we were not sharp enough," coach Bradley told the U.S. Soccer website.
"With the fast turnaround, we're clearly going to consider some changes and be ready to go Tuesday night in Kansas City."
Five Mexico stars banned after failing drugs test
Panama led 2-0 with first-half goals from Luis Tejada and Gabriel Gomez, the latter a penalty after Tim Bream fouled Blas Perez.
Striker Clarence Goodson reduced the deficit in the 68th minute when Michael Bradley flicked on Landon Donovan's corner, but the four-time Gold Cup champions could not manage an equalizer.
The win put Panama on top of Group C with two victories from two ahead of the final match against Canada, who are level with the U.S. on three points after beating 10-man Guadeloupe 1-0.
Jean-Luc Lambourde was sent off in the fourth minute after a foul on Will Johnson, while Dwayne De Rosario scored the winner from the penalty spot in the 51st minute after Stephane Zubar was booked for fouling Ali Gerba.
The Panamanians lost to the U.S. in the 2005 final after a penalty shootout, and reached the quarterfinals in 2007 and 2009.
In Sunday's Group A games, defending champions Mexico take on second-placed Costa Rica having already qualified for the last eight after two successive 5-0 wins.
However, Mexico's hopes have been hit by the suspension of five players -- Guillermo Ochoa, Francisco Javier Rodriguez, Edgar Duenas, Antonio Naelson "Sinha" and Christian Bermudez -- who tested positive for the banned drug clenbuterol.
To finish second, El Salvador -- whose only point came in a 1-1 draw with Costa Rica -- must beat bottom nation Cuba by 11 goals and see the 2009 semifinalists lose to five-time champions Mexico.
Group B concludes on Monday, with Jamaica already through to the quarterfinals after two victories ahead of the clash with second-placed Honduras in New Jersey.
Third-placed Guatemala, who have only one point, must beat bottom nation Grenada by a big margin and hope the Hondurans lose.
