Rockets from Gaza came down in Israel overnight, according to the Israeli military. This comes on the heels of a cease-fire announcement Hamas made toward the Jewish state late Wednesday local time.
Nine rockets were fired from Gaza, eight of which landed "in open areas," an Israeli military spokesman said. "The ninth has been intercepted by the 'Iron Dome' over Ashkalon. No one was injured."
"Iron Dome" refers to an Israeli missile defense system.
On its website, Hamas' military wing, Izzedine al Qassam, acknowledged firing eight rockets just before midnight Wednesday at an Israeli military base as a retaliatory measure.
Another independent militant group admitted to firing one rocket into Israel at 12:45 a.m. Thursday (5:45 p.m. Eastern time Wednesday), also citing retaliation.
Gaza has remained quiet since the rockets were fired, but Israeli aircraft can be heard flying overhead, a CNN producer in Gaza said.
The Palestinian group Hamas said in a statement posted before late Wednesday that its military wing has agreed to an Egyptian-brokered cease-fire with Israel following a sharp increase in violence between the two sides.
Hamas -- which controls the Palestinian territory of Gaza -- said it would observe the cease-fire as long as Israel remained committed to the agreement.
There was no immediate response to the cease-fire announcement from Israel, which said more than 75 rockets had been fired into its territory from Gaza in the three days prior to the announcement. Eight Palestinians and one Israeli died between Sunday and Tuesday in a spate of rocket attacks and Israeli airstrikes, officials on both sides reported; Israel also said a Palestinian child was killed when a rocket launch attempt by militants backfired.
Israeli warplanes struck two targets in Gaza on Tuesday in response to the rocket fire, the Israeli military said. Hamas security sources told CNN the strikes targeted a site used to train Palestinian militants to launch rockets as well as another training facility run by the Izzedine al-Qassam Brigades with two people injured.
"We stress that our confrontation with the Zionist enemy in this round was in its minimum in fire and counterattacks," the brigades said in a statement announcing the deal. It said the agreement includes "all other resistance factions" operating from Gaza, which has been under Hamas control since 2007.
Israel says nearly 300 rockets have been fired into its territory from Gaza since the beginning of 2012.
CNN's Yousuf Basil and Kareem Khadder contributed to this report.
