Snap out of that turkey coma and make plans for a little escape from the frenzy of holiday prep. Hotels and resorts are getting in on the Black Friday and Cyber Monday action with sales on upcoming stays, all bookable from the comfort of your own home.
Here are a handful of hotel deals to get the traveler in you salivating:
Harbor View Hotel
Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts
For savings on an island getaway just a hop off the East Coast, check out the Harbor View Hotel's five-day flash sale. Starting on Wednesday at 5 p.m. through Cyber Monday, travelers can book three-night stays for 30% off at this historic Martha's Vineyard retreat. One and two-night stays will be available at 20% off during the sale. The reduced rates are available for stays between November 30 and June 27, based on availability. The hotel boasts ocean views and easy access to the shops and dining of Edgartown.
The Benjamin
New York
Save up to 60% off rooms at The Benjamin in New York during the hotel's Cyber Monday sale, starting at 12 a.m. EST. Nonrefundable rooms at this boutique hotel on 50th Street and Lexington Avenue will start at $199 for standard rooms, going up to $379 for a one-bedroom terrace suite complete with a separate living room and a kitchen area with full-sized refrigerator and microwave. Refundable rooms will start at $229 during the one-day sale. The discounted rates are available for stays through February 28, 2013, and are only offered online using the promotion code CYBER1.
Fairmont Scottsdale Princess
Scottsdale, Arizona
Heat up your holidays in Arizona with a discounted stay at the Fairmont Scottsdale Princess, a AAA Five Diamond resort. Guests who book a minimum three-night stay for getaways between November 23 and December 30 will receive 50% off during the sale running from Black Friday to Cyber Monday using the promotion code 2U850P (blackout dates December 5-7, 15). During the holidays the resort decks the halls and grounds with light displays and offers ice skating and rides on an electric train.
Grand Lucayan, Bahamas
Grand Bahama Island
For a family-friendly island getaway close to the United States, the Grand Lucayan's post-Thanksgiving sale offers great value. Savvy shoppers can save 60% by booking between Black Friday and Cyber Monday for travel through September 30, 2013. Discounted rates start at $79. The resort offers 542 guest rooms along a 7.5-acre beach plus dining, fitness, golf and water sports.
Antigua, Barbados, St. Lucia
Caribbean hotels
Hotels in Barbados, Antigua and St. Lucia are banding together in a public-private partnership between the nations to offer 20% discounts from Black Friday through Cyber Monday when rooms are booked through official destination marketing or hotel association websites. The 20% savings, available at nearly 125 participating hotels across the three Caribbean nations, is applicable at properties at a full range of price points for stays through December 15, 2013, with no blackout dates. Book online at bookbarbadosnow.com, bookstlucianow.com or bookantiguanow.com.
Share your Black Friday experience with CNN iReport
