British confectioner Cadbury has recalled all of its Chinese-made candy products over fears that they may be contaminated with the chemical melamine, a company statement said Monday.
"The products that are affected by this withdrawal include a range of Cadbury chocolate products and Choclairs, all produced in our Beijing plant," Cadbury said in a statement.
Some or all of the products were exported to Taiwan, Hong Kong, Australia, the Pacific island of Nauru and Christmas Island in the Indian Ocean, according to the company.
Cadbury said that it is implementing new food safety and quality checks at its Beijing plant and that fresh candies will be manufactured.
The candy maker is the latest company to get caught up in China's tainted-milk scandal. Melamine was first found in powdered infant formula but has since been traced to dozens of other products.
Nearly 53,000 children in China have been sickened by the formula or other products containing melamine. Four babies have died, and five Hong Kong children have suffered melamine-related illnesses. Dozens of countries have banned or recalled Chinese milk products.  Watch how scare affects companies outside China »
Chinese police have arrested 40 people in the tainted-milk scandal, including 22 announced Monday in northern China's Hebei province. Nineteen of those were managers of pastures, breeding farms and milk-purchasing stations, the Xinhua news agency reported, citing a panel investigating the case.
Authorities say they raided 41 locations in Hebei and seized 490 pounds (222 kilograms) of melamine.
Eighteen arrests were announced earlier. They include two brothers who face charges of selling contaminated milk. The brothers could face death if convicted, according to China Daily, a state-run newspaper.
The raw milk used to produce powdered baby formula had been watered down, and the chemical melamine was added to fool quality checks, the newspaper said.
Melamine is commonly used in coatings and laminates, wood adhesives, fabric coatings, ceiling tiles and flame retardants. Some Chinese dairy plants have added it to milk products to make it seem to have a higher protein level.
Melamine is the same industrial contaminant from China that poisoned and killed thousands of U.S. dogs and cats last year.
Health experts say that ingesting melamine can lead to kidney stones, urinary tract ulcers, and eye and skin irritation. It also robs infants of much-needed nutrition.
The following 11 products are included in the recall, according to Hong Kong's Centre for Food Safety:
• Cadbury Dark Chocette, 45 grams. • Cadbury Dark Chocette, 80 grams. • Cadbury Eclairs, 180 grams. • Cadbury Dairy Milk Chocolate Pumpkin, 150 grams. • Cadbury Dark Chocolate, 40 grams. • Cadbury Dairy Milk Chocolate Bulk Pack, 5 kilograms. • Cadbury Dark Chocolate Bulk Pack, 5 kilograms. • Cadbury Dairy Milk Hazelnut Chocolate Bulk Pack, 5 kilograms. • Cadbury Dairy Milk Cookies Chocolate Bulk Pack, 5 kilograms. • Cadbury Hazelnut Praline Chocolate (2008 Chinese New Year), 312 grams. • Cadbury Dairy Milk Chocolate (2008 Chinese New Year), 300 grams.
