Trinidad and Tobago's Kelly-Ann Baptiste should have been contending for a medal in Monday's women's 100m final at Moscow -- instead she has been withdrawn from the World Athletics Championships by her federation for a "doping matter."
Baptiste, who won a bronze in the last global championships in Daegu two years ago, set a national record of 10.83 seconds for the 100m earlier this season to underline her medal potential.
Only two-time Olympic champion Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce of Jamaica, who went on to claim the gold, and Nigeria's Blessing Okagbare have run faster this year.
But the Trinidad and Tobago National Association of Athletic Administrations confirmed Monday that Baptiste and fellow sprinter Semoy Hackett would not be competing.
"The absence of both athletes is related to doping matters of varying degrees and complexity," read a statement from the organization.
"In the case of Ms Baptiste this association was notified on Thursday August 8 by the IAAF (of a failed doping control) and the results management process is currently under way and as a result, any further comment at this stage would be premature and inappropriate."
Hackett, who trains in the United States, tested positive last year at the U.S. Collegiate Championships for methylhexaneamine, a banned stimulant.
She was subsequently exonerated by the Trinidad and Tobago federation, but the International Amateur Athletics Federation (IAAF) appealed the decision and re-suspended her pending an appeal before the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Switzerland.
The Baptiste case is another blow to the image of track and field, still reeling from the high profile doping cases which have seen American sprinter Tyson Gay and leading Jamaicans Asafa Powell and Veronica Campbell-Brown facing lengthy bans.
A batch of lesser known names from Turkey and Russia have also fallen foul of the testers ahead of the championships.
The IAAF announced before the event that it will bring in four-year bans for those caught doping from 2015, against the current two-year maximum penalty for a first offense.
