Curtis Jackson -- known professionally as the rapper 50 Cent -- was accused by a prosecutor Wednesday of kicking a woman and ransacking her bedroom during an argument at her Los Angeles condo last month.
Jackson, 37, faces five criminal charges, including one count of domestic violence and four counts of vandalism, Los Angeles City Attorney Mike Feuer said.
The woman, who lived in the Toluca Lake community, was identified only as the rapper's "former girlfriend."
"The female had previously been in a three-year relationship with Jackson and they have a child in common," the news release said. She was injured when Jackson kicked her, it said.
Los Angeles police went to the home in response to a domestic violence call on June 23, the release said.
"During an argument, Jackson allegedly began destroying the female's property," the prosecutor said. "Allegedly when the female locked herself in her bedroom, Jackson kicked-open the bedroom door and kicked her, causing an injury."
Police found broken chandeliers and furniture throughout the home, and the bedroom was ransacked with clothes thrown all over the floor and a television and lamp broken, the release said.
Investigators estimated 50 Cent left $7,100 in damaged property before leaving the scene before police arrived.
50 Cent's lawyer Scott Leemon responded to the charges in a statement, saying,"Curtis Jackson denies these allegations as made against him. It is important to note, Mr. Jackson has not been arrested and there is no warrant outstanding for his arrest. We have been in contact with the LA City Attorney's Office and are currently conducting our own investigation into these allegations. Out of respect for the legal process, we will not be commenting any further at this time."
Jackson's arraignment is set for July 22 at the Van Nuys Superior Court. The maximum punishment if convicted on all counts would be five years in jail and $46,000 in fines.
"Regardless of perceived celebrity or notoriety, domestic violence is a serious crime, and alleged perpetrators will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law by this office," Feuer said.
"We will continue to look out for the safety of all victims of domestic violence and seek justice for the alleged crimes."
50 Cent turns waiter for Superstorm Sandy victims
