Three-time finalist Andy Roddick has been knocked out of Wimbledon after an epic five-setter against unseeded Yen-Hsun Lu of Taiwan on Monday.
The American fifth seed, who came very close to beating Roger Federer in last year's final, went down 4-6, 7-6, 7-6, 6-7, 9-7 in the fourth round at the All England Club.
Lu, ranked 82 in the world, becomes Asia's first grand slam quarterfinalist since Japan's Shuzo Masuoka back in 1995. He had never previously got beyond the second round at Wimbledon in six attempts.
"He had a game plan, he stuck to it, and he deserved to win more than I did," Roddick told the official Wimbledon website.
Elsewhere, it was a day of serene progress for the men's top seeds with Federer, Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray all winning in straight sets.
Federer remains on course for a seventh Wimbledon title after beating Austria's Jurgen Melzer 6-3 6-2 6-3 in just 85 minutes to reach the quarterfinals.
The Swiss world number two will face Czech 12th seed Tomas Berdych in the last eight.
"I felt great. It was always going to be a tough match against Jurgen," Federer told AFP.
"I think my form's good now and that's what I really care about. I know how to win here and that's a great advantage for me."
World number one Nadal, taken to five sets in his two previous matches, defeated Paul-Henri Mathieu of France 6-4 6-2 6-2.
Fourth seed Murray remains the only man yet to drop a set at the tournament after defeating Sam Querrey of the U.S. 7-5 6-3 6-4 in the fourth round.
Murray will meet Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the quarters after the Frenchman overcame his compatriot Julien Benneteau in four sets.
Elsewhere, third seed Novak Djokovic defeated 2002 champion Lleyton Hewitt in four sets.
The Serb complained of sickness in the third set and had to take medication before recovering to knock out the Australian.
"We both expected a long and difficult match," said Djokovic. "We played a long match here three years ago and it was something similar this time. It could have gone either way but I played the right shots at the right time."
French Open finalist Robin Soderling of Sweden needed five sets to defeat Spain's ninth seed David Ferrer 6-2 5-7 6-2 3-6 7-5.
