Real Madrid could be without star striker Cristiano Ronaldo for the next three weeks due to the Portugal captain's hamstring injury.
The world's most expensive player started in Saturday's Madrid derby despite coming off with an injury against Lyon in midweek, but left the field in the second half of the 2-1 win over Atletico.
He had returned against the French team after sustaining a thigh injury during Real's 7-0 defeat of Malaga on March 3.
Coach Jose Mourinho admitted he had taken a risk by playing the club's 26-year-old top scorer, saying: "I didn't want the championship to end today and Cristiano Ronaldo is very important to us."
A statement on Real's website revealed that the former Manchester United player will miss Portugal's home friendly games against Chile on March 26 and Finland three days later, both in Leiria.
He is likely to miss Madrid's next La Liga game against Sporting Gijon the following weekend, and is battling to be fit to face English club Tottenham in the first leg of the European Champions League quarterfinal on April 5.
"After a medical control and scan at the Sanitas hospital, Cristiano Ronaldo is suffering from a first-grade lesion to the hamstring in his left leg. The player will be out for three weeks," the club said on Sunday.
Meanwhile, Villarreal moved up to third place in La Liga with a 1-0 victory at Athletic Bilbao on Sunday.
Marco Ruben's 58th-minute header put the Yellow Submarine above Valencia on goal difference ahead of the visit by league leaders Barcelona on April 3.
Valencia remained on 54 points, 24 points behind Barca, after suffering a third successive defeat, losing 1-0 at home to Sevilla.
Croatian midfielder Ivan Rakitic fired in a left-foot volley in the 70th minute to boost seventh-placed Sevilla's hopes of qualifying for Europe, leaving the club behind Bilbao on goal difference.
Valencia, beaten 4-0 by Zaragoza last weekend following the club's Champions League exit, went close to scoring as Brazilian striker Jonas Goncalves hit the post and Juan Mata had an effort pushed onto the bar by Sevilla goalkeeper Javi Varas.
Fifth-placed Espanyol suffered a seventh defeat in nine games as Malaga moved off the bottom with a 2-0 home victory.
Venezuelan striker Jose Rondon scored both goals to move to 12 this season as his team won back-to-back matches for the first time in 2010-11.
Hercules dropped to the bottom after a 4-0 home loss to 10th-placed Osasuna, with the promoted club left level on 26 points with Almeria -- who lost 1-0 to fellow strugglers Sporting Gijon.
Racing Santander stayed a point above Gijon after beating Real Sociedad 2-1.
Levante joined Osasuna and Sociedad on 35 points with a 1-0 win at Deportivo La Coruna thanks to a last-minute winner by striker Ruben Suarez.
