Philadelphia police arrested Carlos Figueroa-Fagot after he turned himself in to authorities who believe he is the man who tried to snatch a 10-year-old girl in Philadelphia, authorities said Thursday
The 33-year-old suspect gave himself up Wednesday evening after police released surveillance video showing the attack.
"This case demonstrates the power of getting information out," Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter told reporters.
Figueroa-Fagot was charged with a series of felony and misdemeanor charges, including attempted kidnapping, unlawful restraint, indecent assault and other counts.
Authorities say the suspect has a prior criminal record in Puerto Rico that stems from between 2000 and 2006.
Last year, he also faced allegations of sexual assault from a family member in Philadelphia, police said. That case, however, was withdrawn without prosecution earlier this month.
Neither Figueroa-Fagot nor his attorney could be immediately be reached for comment.
The incident sparked an outcry that reached the top levels of city government, with Nutter announcing a $10,000 reward for the capture of the perpetrator, who tried to snatch the girl while she was walking home from a store with her 2-year-old brother on Tuesday.
Police Captain John Darby said the girl immediately struggled against her attacker, but credits the screams of her little brother with thwarting her abduction.
The boy "literally screams louder than anything she's ever heard before," Darby told reporters Thursday.
The surveillance video was released Wednesday on the Philadelphia Police Department's YouTube page.
Video shows Georgia girl, 7, fighting off alleged kidnapper
It shows a white car pulling up to the corner of Porter and Lee streets while the girl and her brother are walking home. As the children make a left onto Lee Street, a male gets out of the car and follows the children.
The video then switches to Lee Street as the suspect walks up behind the girl and grabs her, pulling her away from her little brother, whose hand she was holding. The girl falls to the ground moments after she is grabbed and the suspect then lets go and runs away, fleeing in the white car. Authorities say the man also put his hand over the girl's mouth, though that is unclear in the video.
Neighbors told CNN affiliate KYW they are grateful the little girl is OK, but were worried for children in the neighborhood while the man was on the loose.
"It's scary. It's making people nervous, making people think that they can't bring their kids outside, you know, and let them play outside by themselves, and that's not right," neighbor Kathleen McDowell told KYW.
Police also announced Thursday that the department's Special Victims Unit made four unrelated arrests on rape and conspiracy charges related to the sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl on Monday at a Philadelphia recreation center.
Authorities said they are looking for a fifth man and that they know his identity.
More from CNN Justice:
Feds raid City Hall of New Jersey capital
FBI dive team to search for missing Iowa girls
Arrest made in Philadelphia attempted abduction
Arizona sheriff faces civil trial in alleged targeting of Latinos
