Our favorite Sunday of the year will arrive on February 2, and we're already armed with snacks and snark to dissect the best part of Super Bowl XLVIII: its commercials.
There will be the usual deluge of movie trailers -- expect to see clips for Darren Aronofsky's "Noah" movie as well as Kevin Costner's "Draft Day" -- plus the ad spots shilling beer, M&Ms and everything else.
Here are seven clips that we're looking forward to watching all over again:
Budweiser's puppy love
C'mon people. This has small furry creatures, adoption and interspecies bonding. We've long awaited the moment when the Super Bowl gives up on football and just makes the Puppy Bowl the main event, and we consider this Budweiser commercial to be the first step toward that glorious day.
The Muppets steal a car
The Muppets are mostly around for fun, but they often sneak in a lesson or two while they're at it. With their Super Bowl commercial, they impart a very useful one: do not, under any circumstances, pull over for a Muppets bus -- unless you want them to hijack your car. (On the other hand, if your car is hijacked by Muppets, at least you'll get a groovy song out of it.)
Anna Kendrick's 'non-Super Bowl' Super Bowl commercial
We love this Newcastle Brown Ale ad for so many reasons, but we're only going to give you our top three: 1) It stars Anna Kendrick. 2) It stars Anna Kendrick basically giving the "am I beer commercial hot?" monologue we give ourselves every morning. 3) It stars Anna Kendrick giving the only appropriate response to that: "I mean I'm hot ... But like ... beer commercial hot? No. But I love a challenge."
The 'Full House' reunion
We haven't seen Bob Saget, Dave Coulier and John Stamos -- aka "Full House's" Danny Tanner, Uncle Joey and Uncle Jesse -- together like this since "Full House" went off the air almost 19 years ago, so excuse us while we're going to soak up as much of this minireunion as possible. If we're lucky, maybe Saget and Coulier will join Stamos in his Dannon Oikos spokesman duties full-time.
'Draft day' trailer
If the marketing team behind Kevin Costner's upcoming dramedy "Draft Day" didn't find a way to advertise during the Super Bowl, we'd question their devotion to the job. The film, directed by Ivan Reitman and also starring Jennifer Garner and Ellen Burstyn, features Costner as the general manager of the Cleveland Browns as he grapples with the responsibility of having the No. 1 draft pick. We're getting shades of "Jerry Maguire" from this movie, and we like it.
'Noah' trailer
Admittedly, the promotion for "Noah" is a bit of a downer (#TheFloodIsComing? That's a great thought to have during the Super Bowl), but we can't help but be excited to see what Darren Aronofsky's going to do with this classic Biblical story. Stars include Russell Crowe, Jennifer Connelly and Emma Watson. The film will arrive in theaters on March 28.
Ellen's Beats Music commercial, with bears
Ellen DeGeneres is a self-described fan of the new Beats Music app, and she shot a Super Bowl ad to show just how much she loves it. Playing what appears to be a modern-day Goldilocks who likes to hang out at a place called The Woods (we think we've been there ...), DeGeneres grooves to pop music with some hipster bears.
Which commercials are you looking forward to watching on Sunday?
Are you a Super Bowl ad expert?
