Grammy Award winner John Legend will perform at this year's "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute," airing Thanksgiving night on the global networks of CNN.
Legend will perform "Wake Up Everybody," featuring hip-hop artist Common and Canadian R&B singer Melanie Fiona.
Joining the list of stars participating in the show are presenters Halle Berry, Demi Moore, Jessica Alba, Kid Rock, LL Cool J, Renee Zellweger, Gerard Butler, Kiefer Sutherland, Marisa Tomei and Aaron Eckhart, CNN has announced.
Rock legends Bon Jovi also will be part of a two-hour celebrity-studded tribute to the top 10 CNN Heroes of 2010.
The supergroup will perform "What Do You Got?" a new song from their greatest hits album which debuted November 9.
Country music duo Sugarland will perform "Stand Up," a new song from their album "The Incredible Machine," which debuted October 19.
Anderson Cooper will host the fourth annual show from the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, California. The program, spotlighting everyday people who are changing the world, airs at 8 p.m. ET/PT on November 25.
More than 10,000 nominations for CNN Heroes were received from more than 100 countries.
The top 10 CNN Heroes are selected by a blue-ribbon panel of judges, including Muhammad Ali, Richard Branson, cellist Yo Yo Ma, Olympic speed skater Apolo Anton Ohno, rapper Chris "Ludacris" Bridges and actor Rainn Wilson.
Judges also include Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey, singer Ricky Martin, actresses Holly Robinson Peete and Patricia Heaton, supermodel Alek Wek, actor and author Hill Harper, and entrepreneur Ela Bhatt.
The top 10 CNN Heroes were announced on CNN.com on September 23, when public voting began to select the CNN Hero of the Year at CNNHeroes.com. The CNN Hero of the Year will be revealed at the tribute show.
Each of the top 10 CNN Heroes receives $25,000, and the CNN Hero of the Year receives an additional $100,000. The 2009 CNN Hero of the Year was Efren Peñaflorida, who started a "pushcart classroom" in the Philippines to bring education to poor children as an alternative to gang membership.
"CNN Heroes has illustrated the best of humanity through the telling of stories of selfless acts of kindness, courage and perseverance" said Jim Walton, president of CNN Worldwide. "We are honored to bring these Heroes the recognition they so deserve. It is a program the entire CNN family is proud of and excited to share with our viewers on Thanksgiving night."
Also attending this year's show will be the Chilean miners who were trapped for 69 days before being freed last month. Organizers said they invited the miners and five of their rescuers because they symbolize the resilience and endurance of the human spirit.
"The heroic efforts of the rescue of these miners was one of the most unifying and inspirational events of the year," Walton said.
Since the inaugural CNN Heroes tribute broadcast in 2007, performers and celebrities who have participated include Nicole Kidman, Glenn Close, Cameron Diaz, Meg Ryan, Forest Whitaker, Salma Hayek, Lucy Liu, Terrence Howard, Jessica Biel and Kate Beckinsale.
Previous tribute shows have included performances by Legend and fellow Grammy Award-winning artists Mary J. Blige, Sheryl Crow, Christina Aguilera, Carrie Underwood and Alicia Keys.
Award-winning producer/director Joel Gallen returns to serve as executive producer of "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute." Among his credits, Gallen produced telethon events supporting victims of the Haiti earthquake, the 9/11 terrorist attacks and Hurricane Katrina. He won an Emmy Award and a Peabody Award for "America: A Tribute to Heroes."
