Few television specials capture the magic and fun of Halloween like the animated classic "It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown."
In case it's been awhile, the 45-year-old hit follows Linus' quest to connect with the Great Pumpkin, a Santa-like gift-giver, in spite of everyone's biting disbelief. Meanwhile, like a little Rodney Dangerfield, Charlie Brown gets a lot more disrespect and more tricks than treats like only he can.
As it has for the past 10 years, ABC will be broadcasting "It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown" at 8 p.m. Thursday October 27, making it just one of the tasty treats couch potatoes can anticipate.
But all the offerings aren't cute and cuddly and for those looking for chills, there are a handful of scary choices that will have you screaming up a storm.
Read on for more titles:
'Truth or Scare' (Halloween marathon 3-7 p.m. Friday, October 28; repeating 1-3 p.m. Monday, October 31, The Hub):
Host Michelle Trachtenberg ("Buffy the Vampire Slayer") goes deep to explore haunted houses, mythical beasts, and ancient legends around the globe in a scary bunch of "Truth or Scare" episodes that will delight the whole family.
'Halloween H2O: 20 Years Later' (8 p.m. Friday, October 28, AMC):
Get ready to scream when Michael Myers and Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) return for the series' seventh installment. The 1998 film is a part of AMC's annual "Fearfest." The festival of screams includes the third installment of "The Walking Dead" airing 9 p.m. Sunday, October 30. In it, a mob of hungry zombies continues to trap poor Shane (Jon Bernthal) in a school
'Grimm' (debuts 9 p.m. Friday October 28, NBC):
Detective Nick Burkhardt (David Giuntoli, "Turn The Beat Around") discovers he is a descendant of the Grimms, an elite line of profilers charged with keeping the balance between humanity and mythological creatures. In his first case, Nick must stop a big, bad wolf from killing girls in red.
'The Dead Files' (10 p.m. Friday October 28, Travel Channel):
Hosts Amy Allan and Steve Di Schiavi investigate a historic Florida hotel where the owners and guests have been tormented by frighteningly real visions.
'Possessing Piper Rose' (9 p.m. Saturday, October 29, Lifetime):
Rebecca Romijn ("Ugly Betty" and "X-Men") plays a woman who adopts a little girl. That's innocent enough, right? Too bad the little girl's deceased mom is a ghostly stalker.
'The Good Witch's Family' (9 p.m. Saturday October 29, Hallmark Channel):
Catherine Bell ("Army Wives" and "JAG") is back to charm more viewers. In the fourth installment of the Hallmark Channel's highest rated movie series, Cassandra (Bell) meets a woman who says she's a long lost relative.
'Bucket & Sinner's Epic Adventures' (9:30 p.m. Saturday, October 29, Nickelodeon):
In an episode titled "Epic Haunting," Bucket and Skinner's latest plan to achieve epic status has them spending the night in an infamously haunted house.
'The Simpsons' (8 p.m. Sunday, October 30, Fox):
Everyone's favorite animated family will kick off its 22nd annual "Treehouse of Horror" episode. The funny installment features three spine-chilling tales with sidesplitting nods to "The Diving Bell and Butterfly," "Avatar" and "Dexter." Expect equally creepy and fun episodes from "Family Guy" and "The Cleveland Show" later that night.
'The Sing Off' (8 p.m. Monday October 31, NBC):
The remaining a cappella groups continue to compete. But the haunted holiday twist has them singing spooky hits including "Werewolves of London" and "Ghostbusters."
'The Nate Berkus Show' (Monday, October 31, syndicated, check your local listings for times and stations):
Home guru Nate Berkus and HGTV's Dina Manzo, formerly of "The Real Housewives of New Jersey," create the ultimate Halloween table top in time for the holiday.
