(CNN)Lindsey Vonn is back on a podium.
True, Vonn has barely been away from one. Just ask Tiger Woods, who lost a tooth when a camera hit him in the face while cheering Vonn onto the podium in Italy last month.
But Tuesday's podium was special. It marked the ski superstar's first medal at a World Championships in four years.
The 30-year-old came to this year's World Championships, in Beaver Creek, Colorado, having just set the all-time record for wins on the regular, season-long women's World Cup circuit.
And she maintained some of that momentum to finish third in Tuesday's super-G, her opening event, behind Slovenia's Tina Maze and victorious Austrian Anna Fenninger.
Fenninger won with a time of 1:10.29 in windy conditions, becoming the first woman to win back-to-back Olympic and world super-G titles.
Before Fenninger's run, Vonn had temporarily led the field with 1:10.44.
Not that Vonn celebrated her return to a major podium too wildly.
"I thought I skied pretty well," said the bronze medalist. "I'm happy with the result. I just wish the weather was a little bit better."
Golfer Woods, undaunted by his dental disaster last month, once again turned up to support Vonn.
His girlfriend last won a world medal in 2011 -- downhill silver in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany -- and previously won both the super-G and downhill world titles in 2009.
She also took Olympic downhill gold and super-G bronze at the Vancouver 2010 Games.
However, Vonn missed Sochi 2014 through injury. She crashed and tore ligaments racing in the super-G at the 2013 Worlds, then re-injured her knee in a training accident later that year.
"Sometimes good skiing is enough to overcome the weather," she added following this year's third-place finish.
"Sometimes it's not. Today, it wasn't enough.
"But I have to say, Anna Fenninger skied exceptionally well. She definitely deserved to win the gold medal today."
Vonn remains the favorite for Friday's downhill.
Meanwhile, 37-year-old compatriot Bode Miller is set to race in Wednesday's men's super-G, despite only having completed training runs since undergoing back surgery three months ago.
