Daytime soap "All My Children" may have finally reached the end of its run, according to an actress on the show.
The iconic drama, which moved from television to the Internet after ABC canceled it, will not return for a second online season, Debbi Morgan tweeted this week.
Morgan, who played Dr. Angie Hubbard, revealed the news when a fan asked her via Twitter if rumors of the show's demise were true. "So sorry to say, Kristin...but yes it is," Morgan responded.
Prospect Park Productions, the company that contracted with Disney-owned ABC to keep "All My Children" and "One Life to Live" alive online, did not immediately respond to CNN calls for confirmation or comment.
The future of both soaps became uncertain earlier this year when Prospect Park sued ABC, accusing it of violating the deal by killing off some characters in the final episodes of "One Life to Live."
Production was put on hold after the first season of 43 episodes was finished this year, but Morgan was telling fans as recently as last month that it would resume.
"Many R asking when AMC is coming back. Wish I could give a definitive date. All I can give U is what we're given. The Show "Is" coming back!" she tweeted on October 27.
Her optimism, however, dissolved in recent days. She apologized through her Twitter account for "all the positive proclamations I gave 2 all of U that we'd definitely coming back... Bcuz those were the earnest proclamations we'd been given! I'm so very sorry 2c U disappointed yet again & believe me we feel the same!!!"
The demise of TV soaps came as daytime programming moved to talk shows. Prospect Park's executives expressed optimism that they could save the format by moving it online.
"Technology changes the way the public can and will view television shows," Richard Frank, a former Disney studio president, said when the deal was announced. "Now that there are so many devices available in addition to television sets, viewers are taking advantage of watching shows wherever they are and on any number of devices."
The two soaps became available on Hulu and Apple iTunes this year. But unless Morgan got bad information about her acting gig, "All My Children" has concluded after 43 years.
"Thanks For The Memories..." Morgan tweeted.
