The mayor of West Hollywood has condemned a Halloween display resembling Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin hanging by a noose.
A Halloween display resembling Sarah Palin hanging in West Hollywood.
The life-size doll with a white noose around its neck is outfitted to look like Palin -- with a beehive wig, glasses and a red business suit.
It hangs in front of the North Orange Grove Avenue house of the display's creator, Chad Michael Morrisette, who also put up a depiction of Republican presidential candidate John McCain engulfed in flames.
Mayor Jeffry Prang asked in a statement that the display be taken down and said: "I respect that we all have the right to freedom of speech. However, with that right comes responsibility".
"While these residents have the legal right to display Senator John McCain and Governor Sarah Palin in effigy, I strongly oppose political speech that references violence -- real or perceived," he added.
The effigy resembling McCain appears to emerge from the house's chimney with paper flames around it.
Both displays are clearly visible from the street and attract locals and tourists to take pictures.
However not all locals --- Republican or Democrat -- are charmed by the somewhat provocative dolls. One, who identified himself to CNN affiliate KCAL-TV in Los Angeles only as "George," said the display takes the spirit of Halloween "too far." What do you think, tell us below.
Morissette does admit that if he had put up a display resembling Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama hanging from a noose, "people would've probably thrown things through our windows."
"The image of a hanged black man is a lot more intense than the image of a hanged white woman -- for our country, in the history of our country," he explained to KCAL.
Morrisette said he wants the display viewed as art that is appropriate for the holiday. "It is Halloween. It's time to be scary. Its time to be spooky," he said.
Mayor Prang's statement, without naming Morrisette by name, asked that residents find "more constructive ways to express their opinion. "
"Politics in America has become extremely polarized in recent years and we all have a responsibility to focus on our political differences in a thoughtful and peaceful manner," he said.
