(InStyle.com) -- It takes a truly adventurous actress to pull off a razored Mohawk, a platinum pixie and a Louise Brooks bob, but we'd expect nothing less from the ever provocative Selma Blair, who experimented with all three looks in under a year.
Selma Blair says she works with hairstylists and makeup artists who "have a vision."
"I have no fears when it comes to my hair or clothes," proclaims the 36-year-old star of NBC's upcoming mom-and-daughter sitcom "Kath and Kim" and July's action flick "Hellboy II: The Golden Army."
Makeup, however, is an entirely different matter for the self-declared "poor applier," who sticks with basics like nude lipstick and pink blush, and ducks whenever she sees a liquid liner. "I avoid anything difficult," she says.
Blair's signature look: "A rosy cheek, a smudgy eye, a lot of mascara--I look like a doll that has too much makeup on, and I love it!"
Have you always been a beauty chameleon?
In high school I would mess with my hair and makeup all the time. I used to wear a shirt that said "Ms. Clairol" because I changed my hair color so much. I was blond for a long time, then what my mom called "barnyard red."
Do you still dye it yourself?
Only when I have to cover up stray grays. And I'll just use whatever color I find in the grocery store that looks good on the box, like Preference by L'Oréal--because I'm worth it [laughs]. But for my platinum hair, I went to Sheri at Román Salon in L.A. She was a saint. I had just dyed my hair dark brown, so she had to very slowly strip out all the color so that my hair wouldn't burn off.
And the cut--are you keeping it short?
I tend to like my hair whatever way it's not, so now I miss it being long. I think I'm more approachable with long hair. When it's short, I come across as being artsy and weird.
What's your typical makeup look?
I used to wear a lot of red lipstick, and when I got a pimple, I'd cover it up with eyeliner to turn it into a beauty mark. But everything has changed since I hit 35. I'm at an age where any makeup that's meant to look "slept in" really looks like I slept in it. That's for youngsters! Now less is more. I don't like to wear concealer or anything. I'd rather have uneven skin than feel like my face is cracking from too much foundation.
Then you must be serious about your skin care.
I go to a spa in L.A. called Kinara for its Skin Care BootCamp. You go once a week for 12 sessions and they'll look at your skin and tell you how to get it in better condition. They really helped me a lot. I also stay out of the sun.
Any thoughts on Botox or plastic surgery?
I wanted to get Botox once to make me feel younger. But I don't really have [enough wrinkles] to justify it yet. As for going under the knife, I can't say I wouldn't, but I haven't thought too much about it.
Best beauty product?
Egyptian Magic cream is my saving grace for everything. It works for my friend's baby's bottom, and I can also use it instead of Chapstick.
So what's next?
I'm really excited about having a perma-tan and wearing long highlighted hair extensions for my role on "Kath and Kim." And I've been gaining weight for the part by eating a little bit more of what I want and not moving around as much. I've already put on 15 pounds, and I'll probably gain another 10. It'll be a whole new me!
Will this be your most drastic transformation?
Actually I wore huge prosthetic boobs for a John Waters movie. They were glued on every day by a really handsome guy, but ripping them off every night was definitely outside my realm of comfort. After those bosoms, I didn't mind being flat-chested anymore!
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2008 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
