Novak Djokovic can move above Roger Federer in the world rankings by beating the 16-time grand slam champion in the semifinals of the Masters Series event at Indian Wells on Saturday.
The Serbian will clinch the No. 2 spot behind Rafael Nadal if he continues his hot form this year, which has seen him beat Federer on the way to winning the Australian Open and then again in the Dubai Tennis Championships final last month.
The 23-year-old stormed into the last four of the Californian desert event on Friday with a 6-2 6-4 dismissal of French 18th seed Richard Gasquet, his 16th successive victory this year and 18th including the Davis Cup final in December.
He has dropped just 12 games in this tournament, which he won in 2008 after losing in the final to Nadal the year before.
"This has been the best period of tennis in my career over the past three months. I want to maintain this level of performance," Djokovic told reporters.
Federer, however, is not giving up his ranking without a fight, and set up a rematch against a man he beat four times out of five last year by ending the hopes of 12th-seeded friend and fellow Swiss Stanislas Wawrinka on Friday.
The 29-year-old won the closing quarterfinal 6-3 6-4 to give himself a chance of a record fourth title at Indian Wells, which would take him one past Michael Chang and Jimmy Connors.
Nadal's bid to join that trio with three titles will face a strong test against resurgent former U.S. Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro on Saturday.
The Spaniard was less than comfortable as he battled back to defeat big-serving Croatian Ivo Karlovic 5-7 6-1 7-6 (9-7) in the quarterfinals on Thursday.
"You lose a set against Karlovic, and you are under pressure the rest of the games of the match," nine-time grand slam winner Nadal told the ATP World Tour's official website.
"I think I played a fantastic second set, returning better than ever. In the third, I didn't have chances. His serve was unstoppable. In the tiebreak I was really nervous.
"For sure, it is a very important victory for me. Being in the semifinals another time here after one month outside competition is fantastic news for me."
Nadal, 24, has only recently recovered from a hamstring injury sustained at January's Australian Open, where he lost in the quarterfinals.
Former world No. 4 Del Potro has climbed back up the rankings to 90th after winning at Delray Beach and reaching the semis in San Jose and Memphis.
He had easier progress to the last four when Nadal's compatriot Tommy Robredo was forced to withdraw from their quarterfinal with an abductor muscle injury.
Federer closes on Djokovic rematch
In the women's draw, Marion Bartoli became the first Frenchwoman to reach the final at Indian Wells when she beat Yanina Wickmayer 6-1 6-3 on Friday.
The 15th seed will next take on world No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki, who thrashed three-time grand slam champion Maria Sharapova 6-1 6-2 in the second semifinal.
Bartoli, the 2007 Wimbledon runner-up, ended a streak of seven semifinal defeats as she proved too strong for the Belgian 23rd seed.
Japan crisis focuses Sharapova's Chernobyl commitment
Wozniacki was fresh for her match with Sharapova after playing only three games of her quarterfinal against close friend Victoria Azarenka before the eighth seed from Belarus retired with a hip injury.
Sharapova, the 2006 champion but seeded 16th this year at Indian Wells, had been seeking to return to the top-10, which Bartoli now has the chance to do in her place.
The Russian had battled into the last four with a 6-2 5-7 6-3 win over China's Shuai Peng on Thursday.
