(CNN Student News) -- May 16, 2014
Is it possible (and is it feasible) to build a high-speed rail line connecting China to the U.S.? With discussions underway, CNN Student News explores the planned route. We also report on a troubling start to California's wildfire season, and we look back at the Supreme Court decision that led to desegregation in U.S. schools.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What interviews and images would you include in an educational report about the 9/11 attacks?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What one, general word is often used to refer to an unmanned aircraft?
2. What country, the world's second most populated, is sometimes called the world's largest democracy?
3. What international organization is holding discussions on what future robots should and should not be allowed to do?
4. What Washington, D.C. landmark celebrated its reopening this week, after its earthquake repairs were completed?
5. Homs is an ancient city in what war-torn, Middle Eastern nation?
6. Approximately what percentage of wildfires in the U.S. are caused by people?
7. What national cemetery in Washington, D.C. is observing a 150th anniversary this year?
8. What potentially deadly virus, first confirmed in Saudi Arabia in 2012, has reached the U.S.?
9. What 1954 Supreme Court case established that segregation in public schools is unconstitutional?
10. What sea passage separates the U.S. and Russia by about 50 miles?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
