A Connecticut teenager's unique prom proposal at his school's entrance, which resulted in him being banned from the event, is garnering legislative attention, according to one state representative.
State Rep. Jason Perillo said he and fellow Republican state Rep. Sean Williams are drafting legislation that would allow school administrations, along with the parents and the student, to create a community-service option to determine the best course of discipline.
This legislation comes after Shelton, Connecticut, high school senior James Tate, along with two friends, received an "in-house" suspension on Tuesday for pasting in large letters a prom invitation on his high school's entrance.
The message read, "Sonali Rodrigues, Will you go to prom with me? HMU (Hit me Up) -Tate."    Rodrigues accepted Tate's invitation.
However, according to Shelton High School officials, any student who receives an in-school or out-of-school suspension for any reason will not be allowed to attend the prom, thereby banning Tate and his two friends.
"This regulation is reinforced over the course of the spring by daily ... announcements, posted signage in common areas of the building, and in classrooms, as well as information letters and automated phone messages to parents," Beth Smith, the school's headmaster, said in a statement Thursday. "These communications are intended to remind our students and parents of the high school expectations and consequences. This unfortunate situation is a result of one of those consequences."
Tate told CNN that the invitation "was a harmless, fun, thoughtful and creative way to ask a girl to prom."
"She's my best friend," he said of Rodrigues, "and I wanted to give her something special."
Shelton Mayor Mark Lauretti admited he was surprised about the amount of attention the story has received, but he said he thinks that the prom ban deserves a second look.
"We put regulations in place that are inflexible and that do not allow for us to apply some common sense or have flexibility," said Lauretti.    "Their regulation says if a kid gets suspended after April 1st, they cannot go to the prom."
Tate's prom ban is causing an outpouring of support for Tate and Rodrigues on Facebook; over 110,000 people have "liked" the page "Let James Tate Go To the Prom."  One message reads, "this punishment DOES NOT fit this crime at all !!!," while another says, "LET THE KID GO TO PROM!"
T-shirts with the slogan "Team Tate" are also on sale.
A website called "James Tate Senior Prom 2011" is asking supporters to make donations to help him get the "prom he deserves."
Meanwhile, state legislator Perillo told CNN, "I do think punishment is necessary but I don't think the punishment fits the crime."
"It perhaps wasn't smart, but creative," Tate's mother Tracey said.  "I think they could have handled it differently, something more appropriate," she added.
Calls to Shelton High School, the Connecticut State Department of Education and the Shelton school superintendent's office were not returned.
CNN's Jesse Solomon contributed to this report.
