Australia remained top of the Commonwealth Games medals table after the second day of competition in India following a clean sweep of the three cycling events.
Scott Sunderland won the men's 1km time trial, Jack Bobridge claimed victory in the 4,000m individual pursuit and Anna Meares retained the women's 500m time trial title to help Australia win five golds on Tuesday for a leading nine and 23 medals overall.
Meares, who broke her neck in 2008, beat her own Games record in a time of  33.758 seconds to head off compatriot Kaarle McCulloch and Becky James of Wales.
The 22-year-old Sunderland beat Malaysia's Mohd Rizal Tisin, with New Zealand's Edward Dawkins third, while 21-year-old rising star Bobridge broke the Games record in qualifying before completing the hat-trick with victory from New Zealand's Jesse Sergent.
In India, authorities fight monkeys with monkeys
Australia's swimmers won nine medals, but only Leiston Pickett struck gold following the country's haul of three titles in the pool on Monday.
The 18-year-old won the women's 50m breaststroke from her teammate and defending champion Leisel Jones, with England's England's Kate Haywood third.
England won the British nation's first two golds in the pool, with Fran Halsall triumphing in the women's 50m butterfly ahead of Australia's Marieke Guehrer and Emily Seebohm and world record-holder Liam Tancock taking out the men's 50m backstroke title from Australia's Hayden Stoeckel and Ashley Delaney.
Robbie Renwick won Scotland's first swimming gold in the 200m freestyle from Australians Kenrick Monk and Thomas Fraser-Holmes.
Australia also won gold in the women's artistic gymnastics team event at Indira Gandhi Stadium in Delhi.
Hosts India moved in second place after winning five gold medals, three in the men's wrestling events and two in shooting disciplines.
Ravinder Singh beat England's South Africa-born Terrence Bosson in the final of the newly-introduced Greco-Roman 60kg category, and Sanjay defeated Richard Addinall of South Africa in the 74kg division.
Anil Kumar beat Hassene Fkiri in a stormy 96kg final which saw the Australian stripped of his silver medal, having aimed an obscene gesture at a judge after being disqualified for dangerous play.
India also won gold in the men's pairs 10m air rifle ahead of England and Bangladesh, and took out the women's pairs 25m pistol title from Australia and England.
But India, already embarrassed by technical problems in the weightlifting and boxing events plus reports that facilities will not be ready in time, suffered a humiliating record 113-18 defeat by world netball champions Australia.
The margin surpassed New Zealand's 116-26 victory against Sri Lanka in Manchester in 2002.
But the hosts made a better start in the men's field hockey, one of the nation's most popular sports, beating Malaysia 3-2 in a Pool A match after rivals Pakistan cruised past Scotland 3-0.
In Pool B, New Zealand thrashed Trinidad and Tobago 7-0 and South Africa won 4-1 against Canada.
In the women's hockey, Australia thrashed Trinidad and Tobago 11-0 and South Africa beat Scotland 2-1 in the other Pool A tie.
In Group B, England beat Wales 4-1 and New Zealand thumped Malaysia 5-0.
In the weightlifting, Canada's Marilou Dozois-Prevost won gold in the 53kg division despite a power cut which stopped the scoreboard operating.
Her overall total of 182kg was enough to head off U.S.-based Nigerian Onyeka Azike and Malaysia's Raihan Yusoff as she went one better than her silver medal in the 48kg class four years ago.
