Longtime ABC News personality Barbara Walters will retire from TV journalism in 2014, ABC reported late Sunday, closing a chapter on one of the most storied careers in broadcast journalism history.
She is expected to make the announcement Monday on "The View," a daytime talker she created in 1997.
Walters, 83, will remain executive producer of that show.
"I am very happy with my decision and look forward to a wonderful and special year ahead both on 'The View' and with ABC News," she said.
"I created 'The View' and am delighted it will last beyond my leaving it."
Rumors of Walters' retirement surfaced in March. But she soon squashed them, saying on "The View" that "if and when I might have an announcement to make, I will do it on this program."
Walters had a health scare in January when she suffered a cut on her forehead after falling on a stair while visiting the British ambassador's residence in Washington.
She underwent surgery to repair a heart valve three years ago.
"There's only one Barbara Walters," said ABC News President Ben Sherwood. "And we look forward to making her final year on television as remarkable, path-breaking and news-making as Barbara herself."
Walters' national broadcast career began in 1961 as a reporter, writer and panel member on NBC's "Today" show.
She was promoted to co-host in 1974, but she was hired away by ABC in 1976.
At ABC, she began "The Barbara Walters Specials" and "10 Most Fascinating People," which has become a regular year-end program.
Walters has interviewed every U.S. president and first lady since Richard and Pat Nixon.
Starting in 1984, she spent two decades as co-host and correspondent for ABC's news magazine show "20/20." She still reports on occasion.
Walters was born in Boston and has one daughter. She is expected to retire in the summer of 2014.
"I do not want to appear on another program or climb another mountain," Walters said. "I want instead to sit on a sunny field and admire the very gifted women — and OK, some men, too — who will be taking my place."
Walters says she regrets trying to help Syrian aide
CNN's Alan Duke contributed to this report.
