Arizona shooting suspect Jared Loughner photographed himself posing with a 9mm handgun while wearing a red G-string, a law enforcement source said Saturday.
It's not clear when the photo was taken, but it was among those on a roll of 35 mm film that Loughner dropped off at a Walgreens store in the hours before the shooting rampage that took six lives and left 13 others wounded, including U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords.
The photo, which has not been made public, shows Loughner posing with the handgun covering his groin, according to the source.
A Walgreen's employee who saw the photos contacted police. The FBI is analyzing the photos, according to police.
Police say Loughner used a 9mm Glock handgun with an extended magazine in the attack on a constituents meeting hosted by Giffords outside a Tucson, Arizona, Safeway store on January 8.
Loughner is being held without bail on federal charges of murder, attempted murder and attempting to kill a member of Congress.
Meanwhile, a new video reportedly narrated by Loughner also has emerged.
The video, released by Pima Community College to the Los Angeles Times and KOLD-TV following a public records request, was cited in campus police records as among the reasons administrators suspended Loughner in September following a series of outbursts and incidents that disrupted classes and left teachers and students shaken.
The undated video does not show Loughner or explicitly identify him, but includes many of the same themes attributed to him in other online venues, including statements about currency, mind control and grammar. The narrator also identifies himself as "Jared of Pima College."
The narrator opens the nighttime walking video tour of the campus by saying "All right, so here is what we are doing. We are examining the torture of students."
During the video, another man emerges from a building and the narrator calls out "How's it going?"
He then says, "Thanks for the B. I'm pissed off man. What's that?"
He then laughs and adds, "I lost my freedom of speech to that guy, and this is, this is what happens and I'm in a terrible place."
He later refers to a sociology teacher who he said gave him a B grade.
He also complains about illiterate students and campus police, calling the college "one of the biggest scams in America."
He calls the college his "genocide school" and complains he will be homeless because of it.
"If the student is unable to locate the external universe, the student is unable to locate the internal universe," the narrator says. "Where is all my subjects? I could say something sound right now but I don't feel like it."
He ends the video saying, "This is genocide in America. Thank you. This is Jared of Pima college."
CNN's Susan Candiotti contributed to this report.
