Actor Alec Baldwin was arrested Tuesday and issued two summonses -- one for disorderly conduct -- after riding a bicycle the wrong way on a New York street, police said.
The "30 Rock" star allegedly became angry and started yelling at police after they asked him for identification to give him a summons, police said. The other summons was for riding a bike against the flow of traffic. Baldwin is to appear in court July 24.
"Police stated that he got belligerent and started arguing with them and using profanity," Deputy Chief Kim Y. Royster said.
Baldwin was not carrying identification and police took him into custody, police said.
The actor reportedly became angry at the officers, yelling "Give me the summons already," a law enforcement official said.
After his release, Baldwin took to Twitter, posting the badge number of the officer he said arrested him and saying, "photographers outside my home ONCE AGAIN terrified my daughter and nearly hit her with a camera. The police did nothing."
In another tweet, he lamented, "New York City is a mismanaged carnival of stupidity that is desperate for revenue and anxious to criminalize behavior once thought benign."
Once in custody, Baldwin was taken to a nearby precinct, where he reportedly asked the desk supervisor: "How old are these officers, that they don't know who I am?" according to a law enforcement official.
Baldwin was stopped for riding a bicycle the wrong way on Fifth Avenue and 16th Street, police said.
In a statement, a representative for Baldwin said, "He is back home with his family."
This follows an incident last year that sparked media attention.
In November, Baldwin made headlines after chasing a photographer outside his Manhattan apartment and using an anti-gay slur toward the man, according to TMZ.
"Get away from my wife and the baby with the camera," said Baldwin, who could be heard yelling on video taken of the incident.
Baldwin later posted a statement on MSNBC's website saying, "I did not intend to hurt or offend anyone with my choice of words, but clearly I have -- and for that I am deeply sorry. Words are important. I understand that, and will choose mine with great care going forward."
Last August, Baldwin was photographed holding a photographer's arms behind his back and pinning him over the hood of a parked car. Baldwin and the photographer called 911, but no charges were filed.
In 2012, a New York Daily News photographer accused Baldwin of assault. Baldwin said the photographer bumped him with his camera.
In February: Baldwin says goodbye to 'public life'
Angry rants bring end to Baldwin MSNBC show
Baldwin apologizes for anti-gay slur
CNN's Ray Sanchez contributed to this report.
