English Premier League club Liverpool have appointed Brendan Rodgers as their new manager.
After being introduced by Liverpool chairman Tom Werner, the 39-year-old Rodgers, who moves to Anfield from Swansea City, revealed that he had insisted that he would not work under a director of football.
"That was something I made clear I couldn't work with," said the Northern Irishman. "What you need is an outstanding team. We will form a technical board that will have four or five people that will decide the way forward."
Rodgers succeeds club legend Kenny Dalglish, who was sacked earlier this month.
"I promise I'll fight for my life and for the people in this city," said Rodgers. "We might not be ready for the title now but the process begins today.," he added, a reference to the fact that Liverpool last won the title in 1990.
Liverpool have reached an agreement with Swawsea for three members of Rodgers' backroom staff to follow him to Anfield.
The Northern Irish coach led Welsh team Swansea into the Premier League in 2011 and impressed pundits with their fluent passing style as they finished 11th in their first season.
Liverpool have been on the hunt for a new manager after sacking Dalglish following a disappointing season, in which they achieved their lowest ever Premier League finish.
The club did win the League Cup but were beaten in the FA Cup final by Chelsea, prompting American owners Fenway Sports Group, who also own baseball's Boston Red Sox, to act.
The Merseyside outfit had also spoken to Wigan manager Roberto Martinez about the managerial vacancy before settling on Rodgers.
The 39-year-old began his coaching career at Chelsea, under the stewardship of Jose Mourinho, who led the club to successive Premier League titles in 2005 and 2006 and now coaches Spanish giants Real Madrid.
Rodgers spent a season in charge at Watford, in the second tier of English football, before moving to Reading in 2009, but he only lasted six months before he was sacked.
He took over at Swansea in 2010 and led the club into the Premier League at the first time of asking after a win in the playoff final against former club Reading.
Swansea quickly grew into life in the top flight and gained a clutch of notable scalps. They beat Premier League champions Manchester City, Arsenal and, ironically, Liverpool on the final day of the season.
Swansea chairman Huw Jenkins said: "Although we are very disappointed to lose such a talented, young British manager, we didn't wish to stand in his way. As always at Swansea City, we want people working here who are fully committed to the task ahead.
"We wish Brendan every success in the future. We will always remain good friends and we thank him for all his hard work and passion at this football club over the past two years.
"We shall now refocus and quickly start the process of finding his replacement to continue the great work Brendan has carried out at this football club."
Meanwhile, Liverpool midfielder Jordan Henderson has been drafted into England's Euro 2012 squad after Frank Lampard was forced to withdraw with a thigh injury.
The 21-year-old made 37 Premier League appearances for Liverpool last season, after joining the club from Sunderland in June 2011.
Henderson will be hoping to add to the two international caps he has gained so far in his career.
