Roma captain Francesco Totti set a new Serie A scoring record on Saturday as his side demolished Cesena 5-1.
Two early goals from the 35-year-old striker saw him reach a total of 211 goals for Roma, which means he has scored more goals for one club than any other player in Serie A history.
His tally sees him surpass the previous record of 210 set by the prolific Swedish striker Gunnar Nordahl who played for AC Milan in the 1950s.
"It's what I've always wanted, to wear this shirt and beat one record after another," said Totti, AFP reported.
"I've overtaken Nordahl and I'm proud of that. Now I'm aiming for Altafini," he added, AFP reported.
Brazilian Jose Altafini is the joint third highest scorer (along with Giuseppe Meazza) in Serie A history with 216 goals.
Totti's early brace and a goal from Fabio Borini put Roma 3-0 up with only eight minutes played.
Juan and Miralem Pjanic added further goals in the second half after CM Eder had pulled a goal back for Cesena on the hour mark.
The win lifts Roma to sixth -- although Napoli will overtake them again if they win at Siena on Sunday -- and boosts their chances of qualifying for European football next season.
Cesena, however, remain mired in trouble hovering just above the foot of the table in 18th place with 15 points.
Juventus' 2-0 win over Atalanta sees them maintain their advantage at the top of Serie A over their nearest rivals AC Milan (who play Novara on Sunday) and Udinese (who host Catania).
Stephan Lichtsteiner opened the scoring after 55 minutes before substitute Emanuele Giaccherini made sure of the three points nine minutes from the final whistle.
Meanwhile in La Liga, Espanyol moved up to fifth place with a 3-0 win over struggling Granada on Saturday.
Jose Baena headed home their first goal from a set piece in the 26th minute before Joan Verdu doubled the lead from the penalty spot moments before halftime.
The home side didn't kill off a spirited Granada until ten minutes from time when Portuguese substitute Rui Fonte scored from close range to seal the three points.
Getafe enjoyed a 2-1 away to Racing Santander with goals from Jaime Gavilan (26th minute) and Nicolas Miku (83rd minute) after Christian Stuani had given the home side the lead in the 14th minute.
Atletico Madrid's long wait for an away win in the league is over after an emphatic 4-0 win at Real Sociedad.
Radamel Falcao scored a hat-trick with Adrian netting Atletico's other goal.
The Seville derby between Real Betis and Sevilla ended with honors even.
A superb free kick from Benat gave the home side the lead in 26th minute, but Alvaro Negredo leveled the scores before half-time with a header.
Sevilla had to play the final quarter of the match with 10-men after defender Federico Fazio was sent off, but clung on for the draw.
In Sunday's fixtures, Barcelona travel to Malaga while Real Madrid host Athletic Bilbao.
Third-place Valencia are away to Osasuna. Fourth-place Levante take on bottom-of-the-table Real Zaragoza.
