It's 35 years after the release of Fleetwood Mac's groundbreaking album "Rumours," and Stevie Nicks and Lindsey Buckingham are holding hands.
Maybe it's true that absence makes the heart grow fonder. Or maybe it's a put-on, knowing that fans are still intrigued by the complicated interpersonal drama that drives the band.
"Rumours" gave listeners a voyeuristic peek into the messy romantic lives of the quintet. "Go Your Own Way" was Buckingham's anguished kiss-off to Nicks. "Don't Stop" was Christine McVie's song of encouragement to her soon-to-be ex-husband, John McVie.
A special anniversary reissue of "Rumours" is now available, with expanded and deluxe versions featuring previously unreleased demos and early takes, along with a dozen live recordings from the group's 1977 world tour.
At 35, still the 'perfect album'
In April, Nicks and Buckingham will join drummer Mick Fleetwood and bassist John McVie for their first tour in three years. In addition to their arsenal of beloved hits, they're hoping to crowd-test three newly recorded tracks.
"We have two brand new songs and one really, really old song," Nicks said.
The "old" tune predates Fleetwood Mac: an unreleased nugget written for the "Buckingham Nicks" LP, which marks its 40th anniversary this year.
The two "new" tracks were penned by Buckingham. Last year, he went into the studio with Fleetwood and McVie to record eight songs they hoped would become the catalyst for a new Fleetwood Mac album. But Nicks had reservations.
"We really didn't want to rent a house for a year and then make a whole record with 13, 14, 15 songs on it, then have most of the people who are thinking about buying it buy one song," she explained. "So we did the three songs, and we'll see how the world reacts to that. If they love those three songs, then maybe they might talk us into doing something else."
Maybe Nicks and Buckingham's hand-holding isn't for the cameras. Maybe it's to remind each other that despite their differences, they remain personally supportive and unified in their commitment to the juggernaut that is Fleetwood Mac -- even if it means playing mostly vintage hits for their upcoming tour.
"That's okay," Buckingham conceded. "That's part and parcel with what we do."
"We laugh," added Nicks, "but (the classics are) why we all have a beautiful house."
