The St. Louis Cardinals finished their improbable run Friday night with a convincing 6-2 win, beating the Texas Rangers and giving the franchise another World Series championship.
Instead of the furious comebacks the Cards have been known for this year, the Cards grabbed a commanding lead in the fifth inning Friday and held on.
"We got it. It is unbelievable," outfielder Allen Craig said. "This is an unbelievable group of guys. I am just glad to be a part of this."
Craig, who caught the last out of the game, was more than a part of it. He hit a home run in the third inning of Friday's game and stole a home run from Ranger Nelson Cruz leaping over the wall to bring the ball back.
Another one of the stars of Friday's game was Cardinals catcher Yadier Molina, who had two hits and knocked in two RBIs. Another St. Louis star was hurler Chris Carpenter, who continued his undefeated postseason run by stymieing the Rangers for six innings Friday.
Rangers pitchers were plagued with wildness Friday and throughout the series.
In the fifth inning, the Cardinals were able to get two runs and jump to a commanding 5 to 2 lead without getting a hit, capitalizing on Rangers' walks.
The win gives the Cards their 11th World Series championship. The Cardinals last won the championship in 2006.
Friday's win may have seemed a little melodramatic compared to the instant-classic World Series game Thursday, when the Cardinals displayed their never-say-die attitude.
The Cardinals were pushed to within their last strike in the ninth and 10th innings only to come back and erase two-run deficits both times.
They finished the comeback in the 11th inning beating the Rangers 10 to 9 on David Freese's walk-off home run.
Freese was named the most valuable player of the series.
"This is a dream come true," Freese said. "This is why you keep battling."
Cardinals Manager Tony La Russa said the fans, cheering and supporting, helped his team to the muster the strength to comeback so many times.
"It is amazing, incredible," La Russa said. "This is for you, fans. Thank you so much."
Comebacks are nothing new for the Cards, who made a furious dash just to reach the postseason. The team erased a 10.5-game deficit with the Atlanta Braves in the last month of the regular season just to make it to the playoffs. They punctuated that comeback by taking the must-win last two games of the season and stealing the National League wild card from the Braves.
Once in the playoffs, the Cards defeated division champs Milwaukee Brewers and Philadelphia Phillies. Both feats defied oddsmakers.
