Accused "barefoot bandit" Colton Harris-Moore was indicted Wednesday by a federal grand jury in connection with a series of airplane and boat thefts in the Pacific northwest, federal prosecutors in Washington state said.
The 19-year-old gained notoriety for allegedly stealing planes and flying without a pilot's certificate -- sometimes without shoes.
The teen had been on the run since he walked away from a juvenile halfway house in Renton, Washington, in 2008, according to court records. He was captured on July 11 in the Bahamas after flying 1,000 miles in a stolen plane from Indiana, authorities said.
On Wednesday, Harris-Moore was indicted on five counts, including interstate transportation of a stolen aircraft for allegedly flying a Cessna aircraft from Bonners Ferry, Idaho, to near Granite Falls, Washington on September 29, 2009, the U.S. Attorney's Office in Seattle said.
He is also charged with interstate and foreign transportation of a stolen firearm for allegedly stealing a .32 caliber pistol in Canada and carrying it into Idaho and on the stolen plane he flew to the Granite Falls area, according to the indictment.
In addition, Harris-Moore is accused of piloting an aircraft without an airman's certificate for a flight he allegedly made in a stolen plane from Anacortes to Eastsound, Washington, on February 10, 2010.
Another charge relates to allegations that he stole a 34-foot boat in Ilwaco, Washington, and sailed to Oregon on May 31, 2010, the indictment says.
He faces a weapons possession charge for allegedly carrying a Jennings .22 caliber pistol while he was a fugitive between October 1, 2009, and May 6, 2010.
Four of the counts in the indictment are punishable by up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine, the U.S. attorney's office said. Piloting an aircraft without an airman's certificate is punishable by up to three years in prison.
At a court appearance in July shortly after Harris-Moore's capture, his lawyer said his client does not want to be considered a role model, despite Facebook sites dedicated to him with thousands of fans.
"He was scared," John Henry Browne said at the time.
"He's very bright," the lawyer said, describing his client. "But probably not very mature."
CNN's Patrick Oppman contributed to this report.
