World No. 1 Rafael Nadal will face longtime rival Roger Federer in the semifinals of the Madrid Masters on Saturday in a rematch of the event's past two title matches.
Defending champion Nadal crushed fellow left-hander Michael Llodra 6-2 6-2 on Friday, needing just 75 minutes to clinch his 35th successive victory on clay against a French player appearing in his first top-level quarterfinal on the surface.
Federer, who beat the Spaniard in the 2009 final, later overcame Robin Soderling -- who inflicted Nadal's last defeat on clay at that year's French Open.
The world No. 3 triumphed 7-6 (7-2) 6-4 against the Swedish fifth seed in one hour 42 minutes
After successive titles in Monte Carlo and Barcelona, Nadal's progress has been simpler this week following a third-round walkover when rejuvenated former world No. 4 Juan Martin del Potro pulled out with a hip injury.
"Today it was quite good, especially here with the altitude it's a little bit more complicated because it's more difficult to go over him," Nadal told the ATP Tour website after conceding only eight points on his serve and breaking Llodra four times.
"It's a bit more difficult with the serve. I felt quite good on the court, I served well. In the second set there were quite a lot of rallies and not so many in the first, and I think I played really well."
Friday's opening quarterfinal saw Thomaz Bellucci continued his giantkilling run by ousting seventh seed Tomas Berdych, beating the 2010 Wimbledon runner-up 7-6 (7-2) 6-3.
The 23-year-old became the first Brazilian since Gustavo Kuerten in 2003 to reach the last-four stage in the Spanish capital as he followed up his earlier shock win over British fourth seed Andy Murray.
Bellucci, ranked 36th, reached the semis of a Masters 1000 event for the first time.
"Of course, yesterday's match gave me a lot of confidence that I was needing," he said. "I was losing some games and wasn't playing very well, but yesterday I played my best tennis.
"Today I had a lot of confidence on the court and I managed to get a victory. I played well and I have got even more confidence for tomorrow's match."
Bellucci next faces either world No. 2 Novak Djokovic, who is unbeaten in 29 consecutive matches this year, or Spanish sixth seed David Ferrer -- the losing finalist in Monte Carlo and Barcelona last month.
"They are losing very few matches, but they are not invincible, they can also lose," Bellucci said ahead of the duo's clash in Friday's late match.
Germany's Julia Gorges continued her fine form in the women's event in Madrid, with the Stuttgart champion beating Russia's Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova to reach the semifinals.
She won 6-4 6-2 to follow up her second successive win over world No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki and set up a clash with fourth seed Victoria Azarenka.
The Belarusian battled past unseeded Czech Lucie Safarova 6-3 3-6 6-2 to move to within one win of claiming the No. 4 ranking -- which no woman from her country has done before.
Her last meeting with Gorges ended in disappointment in Stuttgart last month when the 21-year-old Azarenka had to retire hurt with a shoulder injury after winning the first set.
Chinese sixth seed Li Na also went through to the last four, beating American Bethanie Mattek-Sands 6-4 3-6 6-4.
Both players had beaten Italians in the previous round, with Mattek-Sands upsetting third seed and French Open champion Francesca Schiavone.
Australian Open finalist Li will take on Czech 16th seed Petra Kvitova for a place in Sunday's title match.
Kvitova, 21, came from behind to beat Slovakia's Dominika Cibulkova 3-6 6-3 7-5 to follow up her earlier win over Russian second seed Vera Zvonareva.
Cibulkova eliminated former No. 1 Maria Sharapova in the previous round.
