(InStyle.com) -- Elizabeth Taylor appeared in over 50 films in her seven-decade career, and InStyle compiled some of the legend's most memorable on-screen looks.
From the elegant lace wedding gown she wore in "Father of the Bride" to the sexy one-piece swimsuit in "Suddenly Last Summer," check out Taylor's top 10 on-screen looks, handpicked by InStyle's fashion director Hal Rubenstein, who knew Elizabeth Taylor personally.
"Father of the Bride" (1950)
"This is Taylor at her most innocent. Covered in lace, this bears an uncanny resemblance to Grace Kelly's wedding gown -- which designer Helen Rose also created."
See more of Elizabeth Taylor's memorable looks
"A Place in the Sun" (1951)
"Taylor is at her most irresistible here: seductive and innocent all at once. This dress was the blueprint for every prom dress in the '50s."
"Giant" (1955)
"If every woman on the ranch looks this sexy, no one would leave the farm."
"Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" (1958)
"This is the perfect white cocktail dress. Variations on it were made for decades -- and sold out every time."
InStyle.com: Elizabeth Taylor's transformation
"Suddenly Last Summer" (1959)
"This is one of the sexiest swimsuits on-screen -- and it's a one-piece. That says something about Taylor's allure."
"Butterfield 8" (1960)
"Taylor is one of the few that can look glam in her underwear -- that sexy, 'so over it' look is perfection."
"The V.I.P.s" (1963)
"Pierre Cardin, who was uncredited for this look, created the beginning of the jet-set look: sleek, modern glamour."
InStyle.com: Elizabeth Taylor's most memorable jewelry
"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" (1966)
"Taylor's complete conviction and willingness to be transformed shows her commitment to her craft. Although she was the most beautiful actress in Hollywood, she was also one of the best actresses."
"The Taming of the Shrew" (1967)
"This is the most glamorous wench that's ever been. Her look fit the Renaissance bravado perfectly."
"Boom!" (1968)
"Little known fact: Karl Lagerfeld created these costumes. They were extravagant, ridiculous--and completely amazing."
See more of Elizabeth Taylor's iconic looks at InStyle.com
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2010 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
