Titleholders Inter Milan relieved the pressure on under-fire manager Rafael Benitez by qualifying for the knockout stages of the Champions League along with Group A rivals Tottenham on Wednesday night.
The Italian champions scraped a 1-0 win at home to Dutch league winners Twente to go through to the last 16 ahead of the final round of matches on December 7.
Veteran Argentine midfielder Esteban Cambiasso scored the winner in the 55th minute after Wesley Sneijder's free-kick hit the defensive wall.
The Dutch midfielder had earlier hit the woodwork from a similar situation and missed an early chance from close range for injury-hit Inter.
Third-placed Twente hit the crossbar through second-half substitute Denny Landzaat in the 75th minute, but now face a drop into the second-tier Europa League.
England's Tottenham, playing in Europe's top club competition for the first time, remained top of the table after crushing Werder Bremen 3-0.
The German club next host Inter in their final match, having only two points from five matches -- three behind Twente with a worse goal difference, meaning their European season is effectively over.
Tottenham went ahead in the sixth minute when defender Younes Kaboul followed up his match-winning goal from Saturday's London derby against Arsenal to volley in a right-wing cross from winger Aaron Lennon.
Croatia midfielder Luka Modric made it 2-0 in the first minute of first-half injury-time as he calmly poked in a volley after striker Peter Crouch headed down a cross from fullback Alan Hutton.
Gareth Bale hit the bar with a free-kick five minutes after the break, but had a penalty saved by goalkeeper Tim Wiese soon after when Modric was fouled by Felix Kroos.
However, Crouch sealed victory with 11 minutes to play as he converted Lennon's low cross after Bale's floated center hit the top of the bar.
Barcelona qualified from Group D with a 3-0 victory away to Panathinaikos, which eliminated the Greek side.
Winger Pedro scored twice while Leo Messi continued his sensational scoring run to give the Catalan club an unassailable 11 points from five games.
Daniel Alves set Pedro free for the 27th-minute opener, firing in a low shot, then the Brazil fullback charged forward to start a super move that ended in Messi converting Adriano's cross in the 63rd minute.
Six minutes later, Alves and Andres Iniesta combined to give Pedro a simple second goal.
The Spanish champions finished top following Rubin Kazan's earlier 1-0 win at home to second-placed Copenhagen, which left the Russians just a point behind the Danes ahead of their trip to Barca's Nou Camp next month.
Christian Noboa's penalty in first-half injury-time gave Rubin a first home win in the competition in six attempts.
The club's captain scored after Bebras Natcho's free-kick was handled by veteran winger Jesper Gronkjaer, and his side held on for victory after Copenhagen's Dame N'Doye hit the crossbar and goalkeeper Sergei Ryzhikov denied substitute Kenneth Zohore in time added on.
Manchester United qualified from Group C with a 1-0 win away to Scottish side Rangers, as Wayne Rooney scored the winner in his first start since early October.
The England striker netted an 87th-minute penalty after Brazilian defender Fabio da Silva was fouled by Steven Naismith.
It was Rooney's second match in four days, having come on as a substitute on Saturday following an ankle injury and the controversy over whether he would stay at the English club which ended in him signing a new five-year contract.
Third-placed Rangers will now drop into the Europa League regardless of the result of their final match against Bursaspor.
The Turkish club will finish bottom following the 6-1 thrashing at Valencia, who need to beat United to finish top.
The Spanish side, however, are guaranteed a place in the second round following a four-goal first-half blitz at the Mestalla.
Juan Mata's 17th-minute penalty was followed by the first of striker Roberto Soldado's two goals, then fellow striker Aritz Aduriz netted at the near post at the second attempt and winger Joaquin whipped a deflected effort into the top corner.
Soldado rounded the keeper and fired into the roof of the net 10 minutes after halftime before Pablo Batalla converted a low cross at the far post, then Alejandro Dominguez wrapped up Valencia's win with 12 minutes left.
French club Lyon went through for the eight successive year despite losing 3-0 at Schalke, who also qualified from Group B.
The German side led 2-0 inside the first 20 minutes through Peruvian midfielder Jefferson Farfan and Dutch striker Klaas-Jan Huntelaar, who capped victory with his second goal with a minute to play.
Veteran Spanish striker Raul set up Farfan with a deflected pass after pouncing on an attempted clearance by Pape Diakhate, then Peer Kluge's cross provided Huntelaar with the second.
Lyon had key midfielder Yoann Gourcuff stretchered off with an ankle injury in the second half, then Huntelaar's late deflected effort gave Schalke a perfect home record and put his side a point clear ahead of the December 7 trip to Portugal.
Schalke will face a Benfica side who surprisingly crashed 3-0 at bottom club Hapoel Tel Aviv.
The Israelis picked up their first victory to leave Benfica three points behind Lyon, as attacking midfielder Eran Zahavi scored in each half either side of defender Douglas da Silva's 74th-minute goal from a corner.
