Australian cricketer Phil Hughes is fighting for his life in hospital, a day after he was felled by a sickening blow from a ball during a televised match in Sydney.
The 25-year-old batsman, who was playing for South Australia against New South Wales at the Sydney Cricket Ground (SCG) Tuesday, collapsed after being struck by a "bouncer" from bowler Sean Abbott.
After receiving treatment on the pitch, he was rushed to the city's St Vincent's Hospital, where he underwent neurosurgery.
"Phil remains in a critical condition in intensive care. He's in the hands of some of the best specialists available for this type of injury so we'll just wait and see," hospital spokesman David Faktor told CNN Wednesday.
The "bouncer," a delivery pitched short so it bounces up at the batsman's upper body, is a common tactic for bowlers to use in cricket.
Nick Compton: Facing fear in cricket's fast lane
Head protection
But despite the accident to Hughes, who has played 26 Test matches for Australia, former England batsman Nick Compton said he does not think cricket has a problem with head protection.
"It's awkward, it's part of the game. For the bowler, it's not his fault. It's one of those freak accidents," said the 31 year old, who played with Hughes at English county Middlesex in 2009.
"On another day, you do exactly the same thing and it glances off your helmet, you get a bit of a bruise, you feel a bit 'ugh' and that's about it. Every batsman has been hit at some point, some worse than others. It's worrying.
"It's the unpredictability of sport, that's what makes it what it is. It's a tough one to get right. If you want an absolutely risk-free occupation, don't play sport.
"The helmets these days are very well made. It's hit him in an absolute freak place."
He added that the hot, dry conditions of an Australian summer create hard pitches, which suit fast bowlers.
But Australian sports commentator Peter FitzSimons said the sport should look again at the welfare of its players even if it was a "freak accident."
"The cricket world should be looking for the helmet to cover the side and back of the neck -- even the ears," he told CNN Wednesday.
"This could be uncomfortable for the cricketers but it should be considered. If you have to choose between discomfort and risking death, many will choose discomfort."
Meanwhile, messages of support poured in from across the sporting world and beyond.
"All thoughts are with Phil Hughes and his family," tweeted former England all-rounder Ian Botham.
Former Australian spin bowler Shane Warne tweeted: "Thinking of you Phil, hope you're hanging tough buddy. The #CricketFamily are sending prayers & our best wishes buddy."
West Indies cricket legend Viv Richards also took to Twitter to post: "My thoughts and support are with the family of Phil Hughes. Hoping the fight he has within will pull him through this very quickly."
And Australian international footballer Tim Cahill tweeted: "My Support and thoughts go out to Phil Hughes and his family. The whole of Australia are behind you mate. #AussieSpirit."
CNN's Bex Wright contributed to this report.
