Danish veteran Thomas Bjorn carded six straight birdies on the back nine at Wentworth to revive his third round in spectacular fashion and take a five-shot lead into the final round of the European Tour's flagship event at Wentworth.
Bjorn, who has been at the head of affairs since a 10-under 62 in the first round, was slipping back through the field after dropping three shots in his opening five holes Saturday until he began his incredible run.
A birdie on the sixth was the forerunner to his charge from the 11th -- which ended when he missed a three-foot birdie putt on the 17th for seven in a row.
He completed his round on the 18th with his seventh birdie in eight holes for a five-under 67.
That took him to 15-under 201, with England's two-time champion Luke Donald leading the chasers after a 68.
Ireland's Shane Lowery, who led overnight on 10-under with Bjorn, was next best, a further shot back.
Former World No.1 Rory McIlroy recovered from a double bogey on his opening hole to card a 69 to be tied fourth on eight-under with Dutchman Joost Luiten (67) but seven shots behind the rampaging Bjorn.
"I would have to shoot ridiculously low tomorrow to have any realistic chance but even then Thomas is so far ahead," Northern Ireland's McIlroy told the official European Tour website.
The 43-year-old Bjorn has taken a particular liking to the back nine on the West Course, shooting 16-under for this half as against one-over for the front.
"I had a terrible start with some poor decisions but I settled myself down and knew I could play this back nine pretty well. I got the momentum and kept it going," he said.
"I'm in a strong position going into tomorrow but the job is not done yet.
"There is a lot of golf to play and I know there are top guys just behind me who can shoot very low as well. So I have to maintain my concentration and form to the end."
Heavy overnight rain delayed the start of the third round by three hours and players were allowed to place their golf balls on the fairways in preferred lies.
It is the 60th edition of the prestigious tournament with the last 30 stagings at Wentworth, which is also the headquarters of the European Tour.
Meanwhile, in the Colonial tournament on the PGA Tour, David Toms, Chad Campbell, Chris Stroud and Japan's Hideki Matsuyama shared the lead on seven-under after the third round.
In a bunched leaderboard, there were 49 players within five shots of the lead, including FedExCup points leader Jimmy Walker (tied for fifth at six-under and world number one Adam Scott of Australia (tied for 11th, two shots back.
