(CNN)  -- Roberto Mancini believes Carlos Tevez should apologize to Manchester City fans after the Argentina star changed his mind and decided to stay at Eastlands.
Tevez stunned the City faithful when he said he wanted to leave the English Premier League side, citing personal issues.
It led to a stand off with Mancini, which was resolved when Tevez had a change of heart, although doubts remain about his long-term future with the club.
The saga was reminiscent of Wayne Rooney's situation at city rivals Manchester United, where the England star said he wanted to leave before a very public climb down and apology.
Football's heroes and villains of 2010
Now Mancini is advising Tevez to take a similar course of action.
"I don't know. Maybe he should apologize," Mancini told the official Manchester City website.
Despite the furore, Tevez retained the captain's armband for the 2-1 home defeat to Everton on Monday.
The shock loss was a setback to City's title challenge and Mancini added:
"It is important now that Carlos plays well and scores goals.
"But the fans still love him."
Ahead of City's Boxing Day trip to Newcastle, Mancini had more words of advice for his summer signing Mario Balotelli.
The striker has won plaudits for his goalscoring ability, but Mancini wants him to show more battling qualities.
"You must also put your heart and your strength on the pitch, he said.
"I know a lot of players, good players like Mario, who did not play football in a top team because of this."
Mancini is set to recall controversial midfielder Nigel de Jong to his side for the trip to St James' Park.
The Dutchman has just served a one-game ban after picking up five bookings, but it was his challenge on Newcastle's Hatem Ben Arfa in the home match in October which gained notoriety, although it went unpunished by referee Martin Atkinson.
Ben Arfu was left with a broken leg, but Mancini said the controversy would not affect his selection.
"It has not affected Nigel and I never thought about leaving him out," he said.
