A man accused of shooting and paralyzing a U.S. Army soldier at a homecoming party pleaded not guilty to all charges at his arraignment Thursday.
Ruben Jurado, 19, faces a charge of attempted murder in the shooting of Army Spc. Christopher Sullivan on Friday night at a homecoming party in Sullivan's native San Bernardino, California.
Jurado also faces four "special allegations involving premeditation and the use and discharge of a firearm, causing great bodily injury," said Christopher Lee, spokesman for the San Bernardino County District Attorney's Office.
"Special allegations" can add to a convict's sentence in California.
Jurado entered court Thursday in an orange jail jumpsuit, with his hands and ankles shackled. The arraignment lasted only a few minutes.
Three of Sullivan's relatives attended.
The next court date is scheduled for January 9.
The defense team expects to receive "initial discovery of police reports and any other evidence that the district attorney has," defense attorney Michael Holmes said Wednesday. He noted that the court "allows video arraignment" but said Jurado "wanted to be present in court during the entire process."
The party in Sullivan's honor was to celebrate his recent return to California from Kentucky, where he was stationed while recovering from wounds sustained in a suicide bombing a year ago in Afghanistan. That bombing killed five members of his unit and left him with a cracked collarbone and brain damage, according to the San Bernardino County Sun. Sullivan received the Purple Heart.
At the party, Sullivan was shot twice after an argument and physical confrontation with Jurado, who fled the scene, according to police and witnesses.
The fight broke out after Jurado and Sullivan's younger brother began arguing about football, the brothers' mother, Suzanne Sullivan, said.
Jurado turned himself in to authorities in Chino Hills, California, on Monday afternoon, said Lt. Gwendolyn Waters.
Suzanne Sullivan said her family is having a difficult time coming to terms with what happened.
"He once told me that if defending this country takes his life, so be it," she said. "But to see he survived that, and now for this to happen to him, just breaks my heart."
CNN's Stan Wilson, Stella Chan, Adam Blaker, Carey Bodenheimer, and Josh Levs contributed to this report.
