Relatives of missing 5-year-old Haleigh Cummings have given DNA samples, and the mobile home where she lived is no longer off-limits as a crime scene, authorities in Florida said Friday.
Haleigh Cummings, 5, was last seen as she was put to bed about 8 p.m. February 9.
The blue double-wide trailer near the tiny town of Satsuma, Florida, has been turned over to the child's father, but he does not plan to live there, said Capt. Dick Schauland of the Putnam County Sheriff's office.
The 25-year-old father, Ronald Cummings, "is just not comfortable" living in the trailer where his daughter was last seen, Schauland said.
Authorities have collected DNA samples from Haleigh's father, her mother and other people connected to the case, including the father's 17-year-old girlfriend, Misty Croslin, Schauland added.
Police have said they think Haleigh was abducted but have provided few details of their investigation.  Watch Hailey's grandmother plead for her return »
Croslin said she tucked Haleigh and her 4-year-old brother into bed about 8 p.m. February 9. She said she went to sleep herself about 10 p.m. but woke at 3 a.m. to find Haleigh missing and a back door propped open by bricks.
Ronald Cummings called police and reported his daughter missing when he returned from work at dawn.
Haleigh's younger brother later told family members that a man dressed in black came into the trailer and took Haleigh from her bed. Go inside Haleigh's bedroom
Authorities have used cadaver dogs to search the area near the trailer. The searches were suspended a week ago, Schauland said.
Haleigh was reported missing on the same day a memorial service was held for Caylee Anthony, a Florida girl who had been missing for months before her remains were found in December. Her mother has been charged with murder.
Haleigh's case received wide publicity as television crews made the short trip from Caylee's service in Orlando to Haleigh's home in Satsuma, east of Gainesville in northern Florida. Caylee Anthony's grandfather, a former police officer, later traveled to the command post to comfort and advise the missing child's father.
Family members of Ronald Cummings and Haleigh's mother, Crystal Sheffield, set up camp under tents near the police command post, going on camera to beg for the child's safe return.
The relationship between Cummings and Sheffield has been described as "rocky." The two shared custody of the children, with each parent caring for the children every other weekend.
Schauland said authorities have received about 2,400 tips from across the country: "all kinds of folks, psychics."
Asked how the family was holding up, he said, "It's really tough on them, as you can imagine. ... I can't imagine what they're going through."
