The body of a boy was found Friday afternoon near the wreckage of a plane crash in Lake Wales, Florida, raising the final death toll to six, officials said.
The plane, which was carrying a husband, wife and their four children, went down Thursday. The other bodies had already been recovered.
"We can tell you that none are now unaccounted for," Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said. "It's just a tragic event of monumental proportion, but we're pleased that we're at least reuniting the entire family."
The last victim to be found was in thick underbrush about half a mile southwest of the main wreckage, Judd said.
The flight originated at Treasure Cay Airport in the Bahamas and landed at St. Lucie County Airport at 10:15 a.m. Thursday to clear customs. The plane left St. Lucie just after noon, and the first 911 call came in at 12:36 p.m., said Judd.
Its final destination was Junction City, Kansas.
The plane began to break apart and crashed, going down in a remote, palmetto-covered stretch near Lake-Walk-In-The-Water that is not easily accessible, officials said. Rescuers and investigators used all-terrain vehicles to get to the scene.
Plane parts were reported as far as four miles away.
The cause of the crash is not clear but is under investigation, said Tim Monville, an investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board.
"We have parts structurally separated. I don't know what that means yet. We'll have to investigate. That's what we're here for," he said.
The Polk County Sheriff's Office identified the family as Ronald Bramlage, 45; his wife, Rebecca Bramlage, 43; and their children, Brandon, 15; Boston, 13; Beau, 11; and Roxanne, 8. Boston was believed to be the last one found.
The plane is a Pilatus PC-12/47 owned by Roadside Ventures LLC of Junction City.
The Bramlage family is well-known in the Kansas State University community. Ronald and Rebecca Bramlage were both graduates, and Fred Bramlage, Ronald's father, was the lead contributor to the Bramlage Coliseum, a multipurpose arena that is home to the men's and women's basketball teams.
