Substitute Javier Hernandez scored a late header as champions Manchester United fought back from three goals down to earn a remarkable 3-3 Premier League draw at Chelsea on Sunday.
On a bitterly cold afternoon in south-west London, United knew they needed a victory at Stamford Bridge to keep pace with rivals Manchester City at the top of the table.
But they got off to a poor start and went into the interval a goal behind after defender Johnny Evans had inadvertently turned Daniel Sturridge's cross into his own net.
And United then suffered a double blow early in the second half as two goals in the space of just five minutes looked to have handed Chelsea victory.
With the second 45 minutes barely a minute old, Fernando Torres' crash was superbly volleyed home by fellow-Spaniard Juan Mata to double Chelsea's lead.
And United's defense was found wanting again soon afterwards when David Luiz was left unmarked to head home a free-kick.
The visitors had been denied two first-half penalty appeals by referee Howard Webb, but the World Cup final official had no hesitation in pointing to the spot when Sturridge fouled Patrice Evra in the area.
Wayne Rooney smashed home the 58th minute spot-kick to make it 3-1 and Rooney again held his nerve from the spot just 11 minutes later, this time Branislav Ivanovic was adjudged to have tripped Danny Welbeck.
By now United were in the ascendency, and they drew level when Hernandez found space in the area to head home Ryan Giggs' cross from close range six minutes from time.
However, only a superb flying save from much-criticized United goalkeeper David de Gea, to keep out Mata's last-minute free-kick, ensured the points were shared.
Despite the fightback, United lose ground in the title race, with City now two points ahead of their rivals, with a much better goal difference as well.
Chelsea remain in fourth place on 43 points, but Newcastle are now only a point behind in fifth after their Senegalese international strikers combined to beat Aston Villa 2-1.
Demba Ba scored his 16th goal of the season, second only to Arsenal's Robin van Persie, to give Newcastle the lead, only for Robbie Keane to level for Villa from close range.
But debutant Papiss Demba Cisse secured the three points for Newcastle with a stunning strike that arrowed into the top corner of the Villa net with 19 minutes remaining.
