(CNN)   -- Australia captain Ricky Ponting was reprimanded Wednesday by the International Cricket Council (ICC) for damaging a television after being dismissed at the World Cup.
Ponting had made 28 in his side's match against Zimbabwe at the Gujarat Stadium in Ahmedabad Monday when he was run out attempting a second run.
Clearly angry with himself as he walked off, Ponting reacted with fury when he saw a replay of the incident on a television in the dressing room.
He hurled a piece of his equipment which bounced off his kit bag and hit the corner of the LCD screen.
Initial reports inaccurately claimed Ponting had smashed up the television with his bat, but the damage he caused did prompt an official complaint from the Gujarat Cricket Association.
A statement released to CNN from the ICC, said Ponting had accepted a Level 1 charge, which carries a maximum penalty of 50 per cent of his match fee.
"Ricky knows that his action was in breach of the code, involving a brief moment of frustration," said match referee Roshan Mahanama.
He added: "It was clear that the damage he caused was purely accidental and without malice, he apologized shortly after the incident at the ground and immediately agreed to pay for the damage."
Ponting was found to have breached an ICC rule which relates to "abuse of cricket equipment or clothing, ground equipment or fixtures and fittings during an international match".
Despite the incident, Australia comfortably won their Group A opener by 91 runs as the 36-year-old Ponting bids to be the first man to captain a side to three straight World Cu triumphs.
Australia play New Zealand in Nagpur Friday in their second group clash.
In Wednesday's action on the field, Pakistan crushed Kenya by 205 runs in Group A, recovering from the loss of two early wickets in Hambantota in Sri Lanka.
Kenya did not assist their cause by conceding 46 extras as Pakistan scored    317 for 7 in their 50 overs with half centuries for Kamran Akmal, Younis Khan, Misbah-ul-Haq and Umar Akmal.
Captain Shahid Afridi then took five wickets for 16 as Kenya crumbled to 112 all out for a second straight loss after going down by 10 wickets to New Zealand in their opener.
