What makes a leader? Is it economic know-how, or military might? Or is it a big thinker with a bold plan?
The U.S. election is just two months away, but there's no reason Americans should be the only ones to get in on the fun.
With that in mind, we asked viewers worldwide on our CNN International Facebook page what quality they believe is most important in a great leader.
After tallying more than 2,000 responses from 143 countries and territories, the verdict of our extremely unscientific survey is in: Nearly four out of five (79%) think a boundary-pushing visionary makes the best leader.
Vote now on Facebook: What makes a great leader?
And despite austerity and unemployment in many countries, only one in seven (14%) see financial expertise as the top attribute for the commander-in-chief.
Those who've hit hard times and were hoping to be caught by a social safety net will have found little sympathy from our Facebook voters -- just one in 20 (5.3%) want to see a social welfare advocate sitting at the helm of their government.
More: Facebook CNN Election Insights tool
And people around the world proved that, at least in theory, the pen is indeed mightier than the sword -- less than one in 50 (1.7%) told us a military commander makes the best leader.
A few other things jumped out at us while crunching the numbers from Facebook. First, men outnumbered women three-to-one in our survey. To put that in perspective, women cast a reported 53% of all votes in the 2012 U.S. mid-term election.
More: Latest updates at 2012 Election Center
Which countries seemed most interested in our survey? Americans cast more than a quarter (27%) of all votes -- more than five times more than second-place United Kingdom. India, Germany and Nigeria round out the top five.
Most of you were aged 25-34. If you weren't, it was likely you were 35-49.
More: Follow @CNNi and @CNNPolitics to stay in the know
So what's your verdict on our survey? And what would you like to vote on in the next one? We're hoping to publish more of these on our CNNI Facebook page and we'd love to hear what you think we should be asking.
At any rate, it's the first time we've done a survey of this kind and we hope you enjoyed it. Please let us know in the comments below.
