Jose Mourinho revealed that he will take time to learn about Real Madrid before deciding to make any major changes, as he was unveiled as the Spanish club's new coach on Monday.
The 47-year-old has signed a four-year contract just two weeks after leading Inter Milan to success in the European Champions League final, sealing an unprecedented treble for the Italian club in his second season at the San Siro.
Real paid a reported $10 million compensation to Inter to secure his services after ending Chilean coach Manuel Pellegrini's only season in charge, which ended without a trophy despite a massive spending spree on the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo and Kaka.
Mourinho, who spoke in Spanish, English and his native Portuguese to the assembled media throng, said it was too early to predict wholesale changes to the star-studded squad.
"I believe it's time to analyze the situation, to get to know my club, ask lots of questions and get answers," he said.
"I need to realize the direction of my work. The most important thing is not the coach or the players but the club. We are too small compared to the dimension of the club.
"If we work as a group, it's not difficult to get results. I want this group to have an identity, to win everything. The strength of my team is always the team and not the individuals.
"The club is happy with the roster of last season and so am I. We don't need major changes.
"We need three or four players for the coach to have more possibilities to get closer to my ideal of a team. But I don't think it's going to be a summer with a lot of changes. I think it will be a more calm summer with all the focus on the World Cup."
Mourinho said he was confident of a successful relationship with compatriot Ronaldo, the world's most expensive player following his $130 million transfer from Manchester United in July.
"Cristiano Ronaldo is an incredible player not only for Real but for the whole of football. Cristiano is a winner and it's not difficult to persuade him of this," he said.
"I don't know if I was born to coach Real Madrid, but I was born to be a football coach. I love important challenges.
"I am Jose Mourinho and I don't change. I arrive with all my qualities and my defects. My attraction to Real Madrid is due to its history, its frustrations in recent years and its expectations to win.
"It's a unique club and I believe that not to coach Real leaves a void in a coach's career."
Mourinho, who has now twice won Europe's premier club competition, said he was confident of completing his tenure at the Santiago Bernabeu, where 10 managers have departed in the past 10 seasons.
"I think a coach needs to be ready to be sacked. But if a coach fears that, he doesn't work well and has great problems," he said.
"I am a coach that has a lot of self-esteem and confidence, and I don't think about the possibility of being sacked. I think four years of contract is enough to win, to build a strong team for the present and the future.
"The sacking of Pellegrini doesn't make me happy. I am never happy when a coach is sacked. But football is like that.
"I have a lot of confidence in my players, I have the hope that my new players have confidence in me."
