Casey Anthony's "first video diary," apparently recorded last October, surfaced on YouTube this week, but her lawyer says she did not put it there.
Anthony, acquitted last summer of murder charges in the death of her 2-year-old daughter, Caylee, but convicted of four counts of lying to authorities investigating the child's disappearance, appeared optimistic about her future as she talked to a computer.
"Just a little surreal how much things have changed since July and how many things haven't changed," she said. "But the good thing is that things are starting to look up and things are starting to change in a good way. I just hope they stay, that things stay good and that they only get better."
She's living at an undisclosed location in Florida while she serves a one-year probation sentence for her 2010 conviction on check fraud charges.
"Casey has maintained notes and memoirs for her personal counseling," Anthony attorney Cheney Mason told CNN on Thursday. "She did not upload or release this to YouTube. She doesn't know how the video got on YouTube. She did not authorize it, and therefore it had to be obtained illegally."
Anthony never mentions Caylee in the four-minute black-and-white video, but she does talk about a dog "I've adopted and I love."
She sat alone, staring at the computer, which she said she's "just starting to figure out," as she recorded what she called "my first video diary." She promised it would be "the first of many." She wore dark-rimmed glasses, and her naturally brunette hair was colored blond.
"I hate being on camera, but I don't know, I need to conquer that fear at some point, and this is a good start," she said. "So, here's something. It's the end of the first but just the beginning."
She paid for the computer, but the camera was a gift, she said.
"I'm extremely excited, extremely excited that I'll be able to Skype and obviously keep a video log, take some pictures," Anthony said.
Anthony, 25, spent nearly three years in jail waiting for her murder trial. She was freed on July 17, 2011.
"It's been a long time since I've been able to call something mine," she said. "And now that I have something even, you know, it's silly saying that I have a computer and a camera and a phone."
She appeared to say the name of the person who gave her a phone, although the audio was edited from the version of the video posted online.
"These are things that are mine that I don't have to, I don't know, that I don't have to give back," she said. "It's kind of nice, finally, being able to say that I have some belongings that are mine, that I'll be able to take with me after I leave here next year. It's kind of funny to think about."
She speculated that she could be freed from her probation conditions, which require her to report weekly and remain in an undisclosed area, as early as February or as late as August.
Anthony said the computer and camera have "been such a blessing in so many ways."
"Now I always have someone to talk to when I'm by myself, so I'm not bothering the poor dog that I've adopted and I love, and he's as much my dog as any of the other pets I've ever had," she said.
