Actor Zachary Quinto, known for playing Spock in the 2009 "Star Trek" remake and his role as Sylar on the television show "Heroes," acknowledged his homosexuality in a post on his website Sunday, saying the action comes after the suicide of a 14-year-old who killed himself after apparently being harassed over his sexuality.
"When I found out that Jamey Rodemeyer killed himself -- I felt deeply troubled," Quinto posted. "But when I found out that Jamey Rodemeyer had made an 'It Gets Better' video only months before taking his own life -- I felt indescribable despair.
"I also made an 'It Gets Better' video last year in the wake of the senseless and tragic gay teen suicides that were sweeping the nation at the time," Quinto wrote. "But in light of Jamey's death, it became clear to me in an instant that living a gay life without publicly acknowledging it is simply not enough to make any significant contribution to the immense work that lies ahead on the road to complete equality."
Rodemeyer was found dead September 18 outside his parents' home in Buffalo, New York. His parents said he had experienced years of bullying over his sexual orientation. His suicide has attracted the attention of such stars as Lady Gaga, who dedicated a song to him at a recent concert.
The "It Gets Better" campaign is aimed at gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgendered youth who may experience bullying.
"Our society needs to recognize the unstoppable momentum toward unequivocal civil equality for every gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered citizen of this country," Quinto said. "Gay kids need to stop killing themselves because they are made to feel worthless by cruel and relentless bullying. Parents need to teach their children principles of respect and acceptance. We are witnessing an enormous shift of collective consciousness throughout the world. I believe in the power of intention to change the landscape of our society -- and it is my intention to live an authentic life of compassion and integrity and action."
Rodemeyer's life has changed his, the 34-year-old Quinto wrote. "While his death only makes me wish that I had done this sooner, I am eternally grateful to him for being the catalyst for change within me. Now I can only hope to serve as the same catalyst for even one person in this world. That -- I believe -- is all that we can ask of ourselves and of each other."
