Venezuela's president has spoken with embattled Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi about a proposal to bring an international mediation team to Libya, Venezuela's information minister confirmed Wednesday.
The two leaders conversed Tuesday, Minister Andrez Izarra said in a post on his Twitter account.
"All the contacts that Venezuela is making with the Arab world and the entire world is for peace in Libya. Tomorrow new developments," the tweet read.
Earlier this week, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said the United States' criticisms of Gadhafi had a clear aim: military invasion.
"Let's not get carried away by the drums of war, because the United States, I am sure that they are exaggerating and distorting things to justify an invasion," Chavez said Monday, according to Venezuelan state media.
The United States has said all options are on the table.
Speaking in Caracas Monday, Chavez proposed sending an international committee to Libya to mediate and help develop a peaceful solution to unrest in the North African country.
"Instead of sending marines and tanks and planes, why don't we send a goodwill commission to try to help so that they do not continue killing in Libya? They are our brothers," he said in a speech televised on the government-run network.
Chavez and Gadhafi have a close relationship, having bonded partly over shared opposition to U.S. global influence.
At a lavish Tripoli celebration commemorating 40 years of Gadhafi's leadership in 2009, the two leaders sat side-by-side during a two-hour military parade. That same year, a new football stadium in Benghazi was named after the Venezuelan leader.
As rumors swirled about Gadhafi and his whereabouts last week, some suggested that he may be en route to Venezuela. Those reports proved to be false; the Libyan leader later spoke publicly in his country's capital.
But the close ties between the two leaders remain strong. On Monday, Chavez said Gadhafi "has been my friend and our friend for a long time" in remarks broadcast on Venezuelan state television.
"We must be cautious. We know what our policy is: we do not support invasions, or massacres, or anything, no matter who does it. But there is no doubt that, regarding Libya, a campaign of lies is being woven -- the same that has been woven about Venezuela for a long time," he said.
The U.N. Security Council over the weekend voted for tough restrictions and possible war crimes charges against the Libyan regime.
CNN's Nelson Quinones and journalist Osmary Hernandez Sosa contributed to this report.
