(CNN Student News) -- January 10, 2014
A Danish commercial ship sails from the Middle East, carrying some of Syria's chemical weapons. Today on CNN Student News, find out where they're headed for destruction. We also cover a smoking ban in China and a pledge by the U.S. government to support the international space station. And we take a technological look inside the Consumer Electronics Show.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What stories from today's show might best appeal to a consumer audience? What kinds of information do you think that consumers want from their news?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What disease do scientists believe might be behind the deaths of dozens of bald eagles in Utah?
2. What northeastern Chinese city hosted the International Ice and Snow Festival?
3. What's the term for the circulation of winds that normally surround the North Pole but caused record-breaking cold weather in the U.S. this week?
4. Who was recently confirmed by the Senate as the first woman to head the Federal Reserve?
5. What do thousands of American petitioners want removed from M&Ms?
6. Who is the current U.S. secretary of state?
7. At what measurement, in degrees, are Fahrenheit and Celsius the same temperature?
8. In what city and country will this year's Winter Olympics be held?
9. What organization oversees most U.S. college sports?
10. What term means charging more for goods or services than the regular selling price?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
