Spain's 2010 World Cup heroes dominate the list of nominees for this year's FIFA Ballon d'Or, the award given to the world's best footballer.
Barcelona's Andres Iniesta, the man whose goal beat the Netherlands and handed Spain their first World Cup, is on the list alongside his midfield partner Xavi and star striker David Villa, who found the net five times during the tournament.
In all, the reigning World and European champions have seven players in a 23-strong shortlist, Real Madrid pair Iker Casillas and Xabi Alonso, Cesc Fabregas of Arsenal and Barcelona defender Carles Puyol completing the Spanish contingent.
The award is a combination of the FIFA World Player of the Year award and the France Football Ballon d'Or trophy, which have previously been run separately.
The winner of the inaugural FIFA Ballon d'Or will be announced in Zurich on January 10.
Argentine superstar Lionel Messi, who won both trophies in 2009, is one of six Barca players nominated, Daniel Alves of Brazil being their final contender.
Real Madrid duo of 2008 winner Cristiano Ronaldo and Germany play maker Mesut Ozil, who enhanced his growing reputation with a string of impressive displays during Germany's run to the semifinals in South Africa, also make the elite list.
Another German who shot to stardom during the World Cup is Bayern Munich's golden boot winner Thomas Mueller, who is nominated with club and national team colleagues Miroslav Klose, who hit four goals in July's football showpiece, full-back Philipp Lahm and midfield dynamo Bastian Schweinsteiger.
Inter Milan's UEFA Champion's League triumph has not gone unnoticed among the selectors, with their Dutch talisman Wesley Sneijder included after a hugely successful year which also saw him reach the World Cup final with Netherlands.
Inter's Brazilian duo of right back Maicon and goalkeeper Julio Cesar have also been short listed with Cameroon striker Samuel Eto'o.
Africa is represented further by Ghanaian Asamoah Gyan after his contribution to the Black Stars' World Cup quarterfinals appearance, and Ivorian Didier Drogba is on the list after a fine season with English Premier League champions Chelsea.
Atletico Madrid striker Diego Forlan is also nominated after a year which saw him win the Europa League with his club and reach the last four of the World Cup with Uruguay.
No English players are on the shortlist after a disappointing World Cup for Fabio Capello's team.
The nominees are selected by football experts from FIFA's Football and Technical and Development Committees.
Full list of 23 players nominated for 2010 FIFA Ballon d'Or:
Xabi Alonso (Spain), Daniel Alves (Brazil), Iker Casillas (Spain), Cristiano Ronaldo (Portugal), Didier Drogba (Ivory Coast), Samuel Eto'o (Cameroon), Cesc Fabregas (Spain), Diego Forlan (Uruguay), Asamoah Gyan (Ghana), Andres Iniesta (Spain), Julio Cesar (Brazil), Miroslav Klose (Germany), Philipp Lahm (Germany), Maicon (Brazil), Lionel Messi (Argentina), Thomas Mueller (Germany), Mesut Ozil (Germany), Carles Puyol (Spain), Arjen Robben (Netherlands), Bastian Schweinsteiger (Germany), Wesley Sneijder (Netherlands), David Villa (Spain) and Xavi (Spain).
