(CNN)  -- New Chelsea signing Fernando Torres said his transfer deadline-day move to the English Premier League champions from division rivals Liverpool was a "step forward" in his career.
After much media speculation over the striker's future, Torres joined the Blues on a five-and-half-year contract on Monday, in a deal secured just before the January transfer window came to a dramatic close.
"I felt that I needed a step forward in my career and for my ambition as a footballer," the 26-year-old Torres said in an interview with the club's official website on Tuesday.
"I am joining a team that is at the top level -- there is not another level after Chelsea," he added.
"When I played against Chelsea there was always a big motivation because it was a special game -- always one of the biggest games of the season. This is one of the reasons why I wanted to join Chelsea because I want to be part of this kind of team."
The Anfield club compensated for the departure of Torres by signing two new strikers shortly before the 23.00 GMT transfer deadline  -- Uruguay's Luis Suarez moved from Dutch-side Ajax while England's Andy Carroll signed from Newcastle.
Chelsea meanwhile coupled their Torres capture by completing the signing of defender David Luiz from Portuguese club Benfica.
The best and worst deals of a dramatic deadline day
The fee for Torres' transfer has not been disclosed although British newspaper The Daily Telegraph speculated he had cost $80 million -- a figure that would break the previous British record set when Manchester City paid $53 million for Brazil's Robinho in 2008.
Chelsea's big-money signing had spent three-and-a-half years at Liverpool scoring 81 goals in 142 matches.
But following the side's failure to qualify for the Champions League and poor form in the league, Torres felt he needed to move to have the chance to challenge for silverware.
"The Champions League is a big ambition, it is a very important competition," the former Atletico Madrid player said. "But also Chelsea have the chance every season to win all the trophies that they play for, so when you have the chance to play in a team like this you cannot say no."
Ironically, Torres' first match in a Chelsea shirt could be against seventh-placed Liverpool at Stamford Bridge in a league clash on Sunday. It is not thought he will feature in Tuesday's away fixture against sixth-placed Sunderland.
"It is like the destiny," he said after a group of Liverpool fans were seen burning Torres' number nine shirt outside Anfield when the news of the transfer broke.
"It is not perfect for me but we will see what happens and I only have good words about Liverpool. They made me a top player and gave me the chance to play at the top level. I will never say anything bad about Liverpool, I have been very happy there.
"But now the history is different and I am playing for Chelsea. If I have the chance to play I will do my best for Chelsea and hopefully I can score."
Madrid-born Torres added that his move had been made easier thanks to the support he had received from the London-based club's loyal fans.
"They really want me and it is important you have the support of the people in the club, and the support of the fans -- I have seen them very, very happy with me for joining Chelsea. Now I am very happy to be a Chelsea player."
Will deadline-day spending buck European transfer downturn?
With Torres' record-breaking deal and Liverpool reportedly paying in excess of $53 million for Carroll, the Premier League showed little sign of being affected by the current economic situation.
According to statistics from UK business advisory firm Deloitte, English clubs spent a record $363 million in the mid-season transfer window -- smashing the previous record of $282 million set in January 2008, and far exceeding amounts spent by leagues in Spain, Italy and Germany.
However, Dan Jones, a partner in Deloitte's Sports Business Group, said this can be solely put down to a handful of lucrative deals made by just four clubs.
"We were surprised to see more than $360 million spent in a January window for the first time, particularly after only around $48 million was spent in January last year," Jones told CNN in a statement.
"When you scratch beneath the surface you find that around 80% of the total spending is concentrated across Chelsea, Liverpool, Aston Villa and Manchester City -- and spread across only six players.
"So this was a particularly polarized window, with only a few clubs flexing their financial muscles, on what was a deafening final day of an otherwise quiet window."
