A tour bus driver has been confirmed dead, while hopes dimmed for possible survivors of rock slides unleashed by Typhoon Megi last week in Taiwan.
Tour bus driver Tsai Chih-ming, 19 Chinese tourists and a Chinese tour leader went missing Thursday along the Suhua Highway, in northeast Taiwan. Sections of the scenic highway, which is perched along a cliff on the island's eastern coast, gave way.
Tsai's remains were positively matched with a DNA sample from his daughter, official Taiwanese media said Tuesday. Identification is pending for several other sets of remains that have been found.
Confirmation of the driver's death brought Megi's death toll to 14 in Taiwan, its Central News Agency said. The typhoon injured nearly 100 others on the island last week.
Family members of the missing Chinese tourists have asked Taiwanese officials to expand the search, hoping to at least find remains. Three dozen family members arrived on the island from southern China on Monday night.
"I was expecting to see my sister alive two days ago, but the chance of finding anybody alive is dim," Zhou Lifang said of missing tourist Zhou Suhua.
"But I'm still waiting for my sister, no matter herself or her body," she told China's state-run Xinhua news agency. "The rescue team should expand its search areas."
The Taiwanese military has deployed helicopters, patrol boats and divers as part of search efforts. The navy was weighing whether to also dispatch a mine sweeper to further the search, the Central News Agency said.
"I'm moved by local rescue workers, because they are risking their lives to search for the missing," said missing tourist Wu Rika's sister-in-law, Zhao Hongbing.
"But from what I saw today, I think the local rescue authorities should mobilize more people and use more large machinery. I don't know when we can see our relatives with the current rescue force," she told Xinhua.
Typhoon Megi struck the Philippines earlier last week, affecting an estimated 258,800 people and leaving thousands homeless.
The typhoon made landfall in China's southeastern province of Fujian on Saturday, affecting nearly 650,000 people and destroying 500 houses, China's Xinhua news agency said. About 270,000 people had evacuated.
Damage in Fujian from the strongest typhoon of the year was estimated at 1.59 billion yuan ($238 million).
