Many celebrities have taken part in the CNN Heroes campaign and attended the annual "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute" shows. Here, we reach out to some of them and learn about the ways they've chosen to get involved and give back.
Common Hip-hop artist Common wants to create a supportive community for youths on Chicago's South Side. The Grammy Award winner started the Common Ground Foundation to help underserved youth develop leadership and life skills. Common's story  | Q&A
Wynonna Judd Country music star Wynonna Judd is a supporter of the Wounded Warrior Project, an organization that helps injured service members and their families. Judd's story  | Q&A
Rainn Wilson Actor Rainn Wilson is dedicated to improving the lives of young people around the world. The star of "The Office" works with the Mona Foundation, which supports educational initiatives for children in developing countries. He is also involved with Planting Peace and its program to deworm children in Haiti. Wilson's story  | Q&A
Gary Sinise Actor-director Gary Sinise has touched the lives of thousands of U.S. service members. Sinise often travels overseas to honor and entertain the troops with his Lt. Dan Band, and his Gary Sinise Foundation helps support them when they return home. Sinise's story  | Q&A
Kristin Davis Actress Kristin Davis is an ambassador for Oxfam, an international alliance of 15 organizations striving to find lasting solutions to poverty and injustice. As part of her efforts, Davis advocates for vulnerable women around the world. Davis' story  | Q&A
George Lopez George Lopez is helping to create positive change for underprivileged children, adults and military families. In 2009, he started The Lopez Foundation, which provides and supports education and health programs for those in need. The group also increases awareness about kidney disease and organ donation. Lopez's story  | Q&A
J.R. Martinez Actor and Iraq war veteran J.R. Martinez is the spokesman for Operation Finally Home, an organization that provides free, custom-built homes for injured veterans.  Martinez's story  | Q&A
Lucy Liu Actress Lucy Liu is an ambassador for UNICEF, an organization that gives children the essentials for a safe and healthy childhood. Approximately 21,000 children die every day from preventable causes, according to UNICEF, and its mission is to reduce that number to zero. Liu's story  | Q&A
Nate Berkus Designer and TV host Nate Berkus is a member of the American Red Cross Celebrity Cabinet, which helps to highlight the organization's initiatives and response efforts. Founded in 1881, the American Red Cross is part of a worldwide movement that offers humanitarian care to victims of war and natural disasters. Berkus' story  | Q&A
Kristin Chenoweth Actress Kristin Chenoweth started Maddie's Corner, an organization that supports animals in need. Chenoweth's story  | Q&A
