Jim Furyk, Steve Stricker, Brandt Snedeker and Dustin Johnson were named as wild card picks Tuesday for the United States Ryder Cup team to face holders Europe later this month.
Captain Davis Love III had four places available for the match at Medinah, near Chicago from September 28-30 and has arrived at a mixture of youth and experience.
The veteran Furyk will be making his eighth appearance in the biennial team golf competition, Snedeker will be one of four first time rookies.
"We need hot putters and there really hasn't been a hotter putter on tour since the Open (than Snedeker)," Love told the official press conference.
The 28-year-old Johnson is in the team for the second time, while Stricker, who has formed a successful partnership with Tiger Woods in previous U.S. teams, will be making a third appearance.
"I think we have a great team," Love said. "We're extremely deep this time, deeper than we have ever been."
Woods, Bubba Watson, Jason Dufner, Keegan Bradley, Webb Simpson, Zach Johnson, Phil Mickelson and Matt Kuchar were automatic picks for the United States team based on points gained in tournaments through last month's U.S. PGA Championship.
Hunter Mahan, who won twice on the PGA Tour earlier this season, and Nick Watney, who claimed The Barclays title in the FedEx Cup playoffs, were both overlooked.
"There were a lot of guys who played a lot of good golf. It was tough to leave anybody off. It was a tough call for me."
Europe, who took back the trophy back with victory at Celtic Manor in Wales two years ago, finalized their line-up last week.
Captain Jose Maria Olazabal added Ian Poulter and Nicolas Colsaerts to his 10 automatic choices.
The team will be spearheaded by world number one Rory McIlroy, who added the Deutsche Bank Championship Monday to his PGA Championship win.
McIlroy and former world number one Woods were paired together for the opening two rounds of the BMW Championship in Indiana, third leg of the FedEx Cup playoffs, which starts Thursday.
USA Ryder Cup team:
Tiger Woods, Bubba Watson, Jason Dufner, Keegan Bradley, Webb Simpson, Zach Johnson, Phil Mickelson, Matt Kuchar, Steve Stricker, Jim Furyk, Dustin Johnson, Brandt Snedeker
European Ryder Cup team:
Rory McIlroy (NIR), Justin Rose (ENG), Paul Lawrie (SCO), Graeme McDowell (NIR), Francesco Molinari (ITA), Luke Donald (ENG), Lee Westwood (ENG), Sergio Garcia (ESP), Peter Hanson (SWE), Martin Kaymer (GER), Ian Poulter (ENG), Nicolas Colsaerts (BEL)
