The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill student who was slain this year was kidnapped from her apartment and forced to provide her abductors with access to her bank account before she was shot to death, according to court documents released Friday.
Laurence Alvin Lovette Jr. surrendered without incident after a four-hour standoff, police said.
Student body President Eve Carson, 22, was found shot to death in the early hours of March 5 in a suburban neighborhood not far from campus. Two men, Demario James Atwater, 22, and Lawrence Alvin Lovette, 17, have been charged with killing her.
Police initially theorized that Carson may have been carjacked, saying she was extremely busy and sometimes worked in her office in the wee hours.
But according to applications for search warrants unsealed Friday, a confidential informant told police in the days after the death that Atwater had told her he and Lovette entered Carson's home through an open door and forced Carson to accompany them in her car.
The informant said she talked with Atwater after a picture was displayed on television showing someone attempting to use Carson's ATM card at a convenience store two days after Carson's body was found.
The informant said the two men drove Carson to an ATM, obtaining her PIN from her.
"The [informant] learned that Carson was forced into the back seat with Atwater, and Lovette drove Carson's vehicle," the court documents said. "That information is consistent with video footage taken from an ATM camera on that date."
The witness told police that Atwater said the two got about $1,400 from Carson's account. Bank records show that was approximately the amount taken from the account over a two-day period, the documents said.
And the informant said that both suspects shot Carson, according to one of the affidavits. "This information was corroborated by crime scene search information that two separate weapons were used in the homicide," the documents said.
A partial shoeprint was found on a bank receipt Carson's Toyota Highlander, documenting a withdrawal made from her account by Atwater and Lovette, court documents said.
The documents said police believe that Carson was subjected to a sexual assault "of an unknown nature," and they asked for a search warrant to collect DNA swabs from the suspects.
But Orange County, North Carolina, District Attorney Jim Woodall said Friday that the collection and testing done on Carson's body was routine and that authorities do not believe she was sexually assaulted.
In executing the search warrants, police seized numerous pairs of shoes from both suspects.
Carson was a pre-medicine student double-majoring in political science and biology. She was a recipient of the university's prestigious Morehead Scholarship and was a member of the Phi Beta Kappa honor society, UNC has said.
A senior and a native of Athens, Georgia, Carson was last seen about 1:30 a.m. March 5 by her roommates, who were leaving and invited her along. Carson was studying and declined, saying she had work to do, police said. Officers found her body in the street after neighbors reported hearing shots about 5 a.m.
