Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone confirmed on Monday a decision on rearranging the postponed Bahrain Grand Prix will be made prior to the start of the 2011 season.
Ecclestone, 80, also ruled out a replacement venue being used after political unrest in the Gulf kingdom led to the opening race of the new season being called off.
Although the elite motorsport's season will now begin on March 27 in Australia, instead of the scheduled March 13 kick-off in Bahrain, Ecclestone admitted it could be fitted in at a later date.
"The FIA World Council will meet at the beginning of March and could look into the situation," the Briton told Formula One's official website.
Bahrain Grand Prix called off
"I have already spoken with FIA President Jean Todt about the possibility of finding a new date and we both agreed that a decision has to be made before the season starts."
The sport's rights-holder also suggested the grand prix could be rescheduled for Formula One's mid-season break in July, during the oppressive heat of the Bahraini summer.
"We don't need an alternative race anywhere in Europe or any other place. We need a race in Bahrain. If the Crown Prince is of the opinion that his country is able to host a race we will return to Bahrain.
"I think the teams are sensible enough even to race in Bahrain in the summer break, and despite high temperatures, because this is the way we can support the country."
Ecclestone also said a decision on whether or not to hold the race at the country's Bahrain International Circuit could not have been made any sooner. The grand prix was officially axed on February 21.
"Shortly before the crisis I had lunch with the Crown Prince (HRH Prince Salman bin Hamad Al-Khalifa) and there was absolutely no indication of what would come just days after.
"He asked what I would do if I were him, and I answered, 'You are there. We in Europe are hardly in the situation to make a serious judgment of the conditions. Decide what is best for your country.'
"He then cancelled the race and I think it was the right decision."
Formula One had been set for it busiest-ever season, with 20 races planned for the 2011 campaign, including the inaugural Grand Prix of India in the country's capital New Delhi.
