A man accused of screaming racial slurs while beating an Army reservist in front of her daughter outside a restaurant in Morrow, Georgia, was jailed and held without bond Wednesday after being indicted on felony charges.
Troy Dale West Jr, of Poulan, Georgia, is being held without bond on new felony charges.
Troy Dale West Jr., of Poulan, Georgia, is facing one count of aggravated assault, two counts of battery, two counts of disorderly conduct, false imprisonment and cruelty to children for allegedly beating Tashawnea Hill outside a Cracker Barrel restaurant on September 9, according to a Clayton County Court online docket.
West had been arrested on misdemeanor charges following the incident, but Clayton County District Attorney Tracy Graham Lawson took the the case to a grand jury asking for more serious charges.
Hill's attorney Kip Jones told CNN that several hundred supporters, believed to be with the NAACP, Al Sharpton's Political Action Network and Rainbow Push, gathered outside the courtroom Wednesday morning in support of more serious charges against West.
Jones said he and Hill were pleased with the new indictment.
"We look forward to a conviction as Tasha and her 7-year-old daughter move forward to recover from this heinous incident," he said.
West's lawyer, Larry King, had no comment about the indictment, according his assistant.
Hill, 35, said the attack occurred after she warned West to be careful after almost hitting her 7-year-old daughter with the restaurant's door as she was leaving.
West, according to a police report, admitted striking Hill "after she spit on me and accused me of trying to hit her daughter with a door."
During an interview on CNN following the attack, Jones denied that she spat on West or did "anything to provoke the attack."
Hill, an African-American, told police that West, 47, yelled racial epithets at her during the attack. Police said witnesses confirmed her account.
"He did punch me with a closed fist repeated times. My head is still hurting today. I have knots on my head," Hill told CNN. She also said she was kicked.
Police say Hill stated that "West punched her in the left cheek, forehead, kicked her body in several places, and punched her head in many areas several times."
Hill's attorney said he was "convinced this was a hateful, racist attack ... based on the N-word, the B-word, etc."
"The language was vile. It was racist. It was sexist. It was completely offensive, completely unprovoked," Jones said.
Morrow is a racially diverse city in the southeast suburbs of Atlanta, Georgia, with a population of about 4,900, according to the 2000 census.
