For nearly two decades, Seth Green has been one of the busiest actors in Hollywood. Not only has he lent his voice to "Family Guy" each season as Chris Griffin, but he's also the creator and voices behind Adult Swim's stop-motion animation show, "Robot Chicken," which is slated for a seventh season later this year.
He's not slowing down anytime soon. This week, he can be seen co-starring in the new indie drama "The Story of Luke," which opens in select theaters nationwide and on video on demand, as well as in the film "Sexy Evil Genius," which hits video on-demand today. It was also recently announced that Green will star in "Dads," Seth MacFarlane's forthcoming live-action comedy on Fox.
CNN recently spoke with Green about Hollywood's digital revolution, nostalgic television and if we can ever expect to see that rumored Austin Powers sequel.
CNN: "The Story of Luke" centers around a guy with autism who's trying to get a job and get a girl. What's been your connection to autism before this film?
Seth Green: I don't know that I've had too much of a personal connection. I've met autistic people and I've seen the different ways Hollywood has portrayed them over the years. "The Story of Luke" is based on an amalgam of characters that (writer/director) Alonso Mayo met. He wanted to tell a story from the inside of a character who was unaware of something that's different about them. Luke knows he's special because he's told he's special but he doesn't understand that there's limitations to what he can aspire towards. My character is the opposite of that. He's someone on the autistic spectrum who's consistently been told that he's only there to serve as guilt and empathy for anyone that's neurologically typical. So he's become bitter and isolated.
CNN: In the last 10 years, you've embraced many different media in getting your work out there. Your new film, "Sexy Evil Genius," is being released on video on demand and iTunes. Is Hollywood dragging their feet in terms of getting content to fans? Is this something you think about?
Green: I think about all of that stuff. It's just evolution and the more you try to keep something as you predict it, the faster it will slip away from you. We're in a day and age where anyone under 20 doesn't even understand the concept of "convergence of media" because it's already converged. To most teenagers or people under 25, the portal to which they watch their content is inconsequential. Whether it's a phone or a tablet or a TV or a movie theater, it's really about the content.
I look for the best ways to reach the right audience for whatever project it is. Most of all, I concentrate on making the content as good as it can be. That way no matter where or when or how someone is watching it, they're still offered the same experience. I'm sure people felt the same way about the steam engine. "Why are we building all these railroads?" We're kind of arrogant enough to believe that where we are is the pinnacle of evolution and that there aren't going to be massive cultural changes. My goal is to make content for the rest of my life and career. To that end, it's just about being smart and staying current.
CNN: It was recently announced that you're starring in "Dads," Seth MacFarlane's live action sitcom. What can you tell us about the show?
Green: The show is about two lifelong friends who started a successful video game company. One of them is married with kids and their father lives with them. The other best friend, me, is sort of this serial dater, perpetually breaking up with people. His father left when he was very young and now through circumstance, his father moves in with him, too. You have these two lifelong best friends, living with their dads, who one way or another, have failed to take care of themselves. Peter Riegert is my dad and Martin Mull is Tommy Dewey's dad. My character is a miserable guy who hasn't figured out how to make himself happy. He wakes up every day hating himself. It's going to be a really funny thing to play. Especially with a character like that, trying to humanize him or even (make him) sympathetic -- that's going to be a fun challenge.
CNN: Is it raunchy like "Family Guy" can be?
Green: It's a multicamera show. Alec (Sulkin) and Wellesley (Wild), the guys who wrote it, have been talking about "Family Ties, "Golden Girls" and "Cheers." Shows like that, where all the characters are grounded in reality, where there's a lot of emotional potential, but funny because it's about real life. That's what we're all aiming to do: use this medium in a provocative way, the way the shows we grew up on did.
CNN: Rumors have floated around for a while about an "Austin Powers 4" film. Is there any traction around that?
Green: You know, I've been hearing rumors about "Austin Powers 4" and "Italian Job 2" since "Austin Powers 3" and "Italian Job" came out. I can't speak for people making plans without including me, but I will say, I have not heard any confirmable opinions in either direction.
