(CNN Student News) -- October 5, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Washington, D.C. • Germany • Massachusetts
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Broadcasting from the CNN Center in Atlanta, Georgia, CNN Student News is ringing the bell! It is my job and pleasure to be your anchor -- I'm Carl Azuz. In the next ten minutes, we'll bring you up to speed on today's headlines.
First Up: Community College Plan
AZUZ: First up -- McDonald's and Gap -- they're two of the businesses that are getting involved in a new education plan by President Obama. It's called "Skills for America's Future." And its purpose, according to the president, is to link up community college students with the businesses that could hire them. So one part of this, for example: Gap, the clothing business, says it plans to start offering community college students the chance to build their skills and possibly get jobs down the road. While talking about this, the president, who's a Democrat, spoke out against Republicans, saying they are trying to cut education from the government's budget by 20 percent, in order to save money. A Republican representative says it's President Obama's government spending that threatens education by creating debt that today's students will have to pay for.
Shoutout
CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mrs. Schweizer's  Academic Stretch classes at LaSalle Springs Middle School in Wildwood, Missouri! The 1919 Treaty of Versailles officially ended what war? You know what to do! Was it: A) World War I, B) World War II, C) Hundred Years' War, D) or the Spanish-American War? You've got three seconds -- GO! The Treaty of Versailles was the document that brought World War I, or the Great War, to an end. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout.
End of Great War
AZUZ: Well, in a manner of speaking, it ended with the Treaty of Versailles. See, World War I was completely over this weekend. You're like, "what?" Listen to this: As part of the Treaty of Versailles, Germany -- who was blamed for starting the Great War -- was fined the equivalent of hundreds of billions of dollars. The money was needed to rebuild Europe, parts of which were decimated by shelling, gunning, bombing, in the most destructive war the world had ever seen at the time. But Germany, who'd just been defeated, had trouble paying all that money. And for awhile, under Adolf Hitler, it refused to pay that money. Well, flash forward to the 1990s. Decades after World War II and the division of east and west Germany, the country was once again reunited in 1995. And it took up the job of paying back what it still owed from World War I. The last installment of interest, dating back to the 1919 Treaty of Versailles, was finally paid on October 3rd, 2010.
Ocean Census
AZUZ: Well, it was on October 4th, 2010 that results came out from a census on the world's oceans. This took time, work and money: 10 years to survey marine life, 2,700 scientists from around the world, $650 million. It's not easy to take a census of the waters that cover 70 percent of the Earth's surface. Here's the big headline from the report: There are more ocean species than even scientists imagined. One-million-plus, when they used to think there were only a quarter of that! Also interesting -- estimates of what scientists still don't know. For example, more than 16,000 species of fish have been identified. They now think that an additional 5,000 species still haven't been discovered. In the words of one researcher: Life in the sea "astonished us everywhere we looked."
Bullying in Schools
AZUZ: This week, CNN is focused on the issue of bullying in schools: What causes it and what can be done to stop it. Last school year, we took an informal survey at CNNStudentNews.com asking how many of you had ever witnessed bullying. 87 percent said they had. A student who recently spoke with CNN's Anderson Cooper, described how being bullied made him feel.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR, ANDERSON COOPER 360°, NEW YORK: Jason, how about you?
JASON, BULLYING VICTIM: I guess I was bullied on a regular daily basis from April of last year until the end of this school year. One day this school year now I saw him and he punched me in the throat. That wasn't cool.
COOPER: He just punched you.
JASON: Yeah. I didn't even see him coming, he just came out of nowhere and hit me. But he would probably just be calling me names, all because I was smarter than him or the music that I listen to. Just pretty much if I was different from him, he would find a name to call me that was related to the difference and just call me that name. And its like after a while, after so much of this stuff they tell you, you start to believe it and you start to think that it's your own fault. Many kids that I know just think that its their own fault so they actually change themselves and change their appearance just to try and fit in. And bullies spawn other bullies because like in the beginning. They pick on other kids to keep themselves from being picked on
COOPER: I wasn't bullied very much in school, but I remember folks who were and I think I was just probably a bystander, I think which makes me probably as culpable as those who bully because I just stood by and just watched other people being bullied. But, meeting the people who were bullies at my high school reunion, and then meeting kids who had been bullied, the ones who had been bullied were actually the most interesting people, because they were the ones who back then were kind kind of different in one way or another and back then difference was made fun of, but in real life, as soon as you leave school, difference is what makes you special and unique and makes you interesting.
(END VIDEO)
Blog Report
AZUZ: Couldn't agree with him more. At CNNStudentNews.com, we recently asked what you think the worst form of bullying is. The results so far: 35 percent say it's physical bullying. 37 percent say verbal. 28 percent say cyber. One thing you all seem to agree on, what Valerie says right here: "All types of bullying are horrible. Spreading around rumors can be just as bad as a punch to the face." Becka agrees. She says "verbal and physical bullying are worst; they mess with your head and make you think you're worthless." Lucas feels "the most common form of bullying has to be verbal. It's hard to prove, hard to catch, and hard to ignore." Seth says "cyber and verbal bullying can be shaken off, but physical bullying can leave you with bumps and bruises." But Grason writes, whoever said "sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me" has obviously never been to middle school." All of you have had very good comments on this subject -- thank you for talking to us about it.
Is This Legit?
CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? New York's Madison Avenue is a symbol of the U.S. finance industry. Not legit! New York City's Madison Avenue is most closely associated with the advertising industry.
Ads on School Notices
AZUZ: It'd be interesting to see what Madison Avenue thinks of this: a school's plan to allow advertisements on the back of school notices that elementary kids take home. So syllabuses, permission slips, notes that kids are given for their parents to look at, those could soon have these on the back: Advertisements for local businesses. This is the plan at Peabody Public Schools in Massachusetts. The reason for it, we've covered a lot this year. The schools need money, and this is one way to raise it. Here's how a member of the Peabody School Committee explained the reasons behind the plan.
DAVID MCGENEY, PEABODY SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER: Well, we can only go to the taxpayers so often. They're tapped out. The parents are certainly tapped out, with all of the fees that they're incurring. So I thought it was time to bring in the business element and make it entirely voluntary and try to raise money that way.
AZUZ: But the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood is one group that's not on board with this. Here's what they say: "It is not hard to imagine that students who serve as couriers for ads for pizza parlors and ice cream shops will lobby their parents to go to these locations the second they get home. Participating in this advertising scheme may actually cause a backlash against businesses since parents may view them as exploiters instead of community partners.
Blog Promo
AZUZ: You could really go either way on this which is why it makes for a great blog! How would you react if your little brother brought home a permission slip, with an advertisement on the back? Would you feel he's being taken advantage of or that it's a good way for his school to get needed funds? CNNStudentNews.com!
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go, a tale of two bacons. There's the actor Kevin Bacon and then there's the bacon you put on your salad, or potatoes, or sculpture. The edible icon -- we're talking about the bacon made of bacon, of course -- came from a man at a bacon salt company. He did this to raise money for kids at a children's hospital. The dough he makes from this bacon would be used to buy needy kids balloons, gifts and toys.
Goodbye
AZUZ: Who would've thought that bacon, could've been so sweet? CNN Student news will be bakin' up stories for you all week on HLN, on iTunes, and online. We'll see ya later!
