Forget two turntables and a microphone -- New York City experienced two tornados  and a microburst Thursday, according to the National Weather  Service.
Spokesman Gary Conte told reporters at the Office of Emergency Management late Friday.that an EF-0 tornado touched down in Brooklyn and an EF-1  tornado touched down in Queens.
"EF" numbers -- the Enhanced Fujita scale -- are a method of estimating wind speed based on damage. An EF-0 tornado likely brought 3-second bursts of winds between 65 and 85 mph, while an EF-1 carried gusts of 86 to 110 mph.
The strongest winds and  greatest damage, which also took place in Queens, were caused by what Conte  described as a "microburst." Conte said this was "a sudden acceleration of winds  coming out from fast moving storms."  It produced wind gusts up to 125 miles per  hour, he told reporters.
National Weather Service meteorologist Ross Dickman told reporters that the service and emergency management and spent  the day reviewing radar data, interviewing residents, touring the ground and  flying around different parts of the city to determine the types of storms  that hit the area Thursday.
"I want to first say  that I'm very sorry for those that experienced extensive damage with this  storm," he said.
Crews in New York worked  early Friday morning to clean up damage left behind by a  fast-moving storm that killed one person when it ripped through the city.
The storm's strong winds and  torrential rains toppled trees and left more than 20,000 customers without power  Thursday.
A 30-year-old woman was killed  in Queens when a tree fell on the car she was driving, the New York Police  Department said.
"The good news is that most  people were safe, just annoyed, traffic being bad or a tree coming down in their  yard," he said.
Both New York City's La  Guardia and New Jersey's Newark airports experienced two-hour outbound delays  Thursday, while John F. Kennedy airport reported three-hour outbound delays.
The storm also caused a  headache for commuters on Thursday.  All Long Island Railroad service going east  out of Manhattan was suspended Thursday after the storm,  as was service on certain subway lines running from Manhattan into Queens and Brooklyn.  .
CNN's Sean Morris, Jesse Solomon, Logan Burruss, Rob Frehse, Cheryl Robinson, and Kristen Hamill and Eden Pontz contributed to this report.
