High school boys in a California town overlooking San Francisco Bay started a "Fantasy Slut League" targeting girls, school officials said Tuesday.
Piedmont High School Principal Rich Kitchens said in a letter to parents last week that boys organized "a 'Fantasy Slut League' in which our female students (unbeknownst to most of them) are drafted as part of the league," according to CNN affiliate KGO.
"Male students earn points for documented engagement in sexual activities with female students," the principal wrote, according to KGO. "Participation often involved pressure/manipulation by older students that included alcohol to impair judgment/control and social demands to be popular."
Opinion: Talk to your kids about sex
Kitchens, who said the school is investigating the accusations, couldn't be immediately reached for comment Tuesday.
Piedmont Unified School District Superintendent Constance Hubbard's office declined to release a copy of the principal's letter.
But the superintendent is encouraging educators, parents and their teenagers to discuss how "to make good choices and to treat each other with respect and dignity," she said in a statement Tuesday.
"We wanted to communicate to families to encourage a dialogue and to inform parents of what we as a school community are doing to proactively address activities that are detrimental to the culture we want for our students," Hubbard said.
Piedmont, an affluent community of 11,000 residents, sits in Oakland Hills overlooking the bay. The tight-knit city consists of "established, high-quality homes on quiet tree-lined streets," according to the city's website.
The principal's letter said school staff members learned of the boys' activity during a recent assembly about date rape prevention, KGO reported.
Study: Teens who 'sext' more likely to be sexually active
The assembly, held for parents October 2 and for freshmen and new students the next day, involved members of the advanced acting class performing "scenarios based on true stories from our school," the high school's website says. The Parents Night was designed as a preview so parents could discuss the program with their children.
"Achieve the Honorable" is the longstanding school motto, the website says. Its Facebook page says U.S. News & World Report named the school one of the best in the country.
Piedmont interim Police Chief Scott Wyatt said his department of 20 sworn personnel hasn't received any communication from the school system.
"Everything we heard is from the media, and we've had not any reports of criminal activity," Wyatt said.
Preventing tween behavior problems
