New York may be the "city that never sleeps" but that won't come as a shock to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge who are still new parents and are expecting another baby in April.
Prince George, now a toddler, would no doubt love the bright lights of the big city but he'll have to wait to see them himself. A source close to the couple tells me the main reason he isn't coming is that the program of events "doesn't make it appropriate to bring him."
This visit certainly feels rocket-propelled compared to the leisurely three-week tour of New Zealand and Australia earlier this year, when George did join his parents.
On Monday that will involve everything from a children's craft group in Harlem, a conservation reception with Hillary and Chelsea Clinton, to an NBA game where they're likely to rub shoulders with Beyoncé and husband Jay Z.
On Tuesday, their plans include a moment of reflection at the September 11 memorial and a glittering charity dinner at the Metropolitan Museum of Modern Art. The couple will split at one point so that the heir to the throne can drop in on President Obama in Washington and give a speech at the World Bank.
The White House said William's visit underscored "the special relationship" between the United States and the United Kingdom.
"The President looks forward to thanking The Duke of Cambridge for the hospitality shown to him by the Royal Family during the President's recent visits to the United Kingdom," a spokesperson said in a statement.
William and Kate will also have additional private engagements.
Each event has been carefully orchestrated to promote the couple's own interests or those of the British government. Royals are in the fund-raising business and if there's anywhere you can make big money, it's in the Big Apple.
The causes the royal couple support are set to benefit hugely from this trip.
The Duke and Duchess will meet the rich, the famous, the powerful and the vulnerable. No other couple in the world has the power to fill a room like the Cambridges can right now.
Their spokesman tells me: "The Duke and Duchess are looking forward to their visit enormously, especially as neither have visited New York or Washington in any capacity before.
"They fondly remember the incredibly warm welcome they received on their last official visit to the U.S.A. (California in 2011) and are very much looking forward to returning to the States."
That last visit was to sunny Los Angeles at a time when people were still sizzling from the hype around the royal wedding. It was an unquestionable triumph.
This time they will be returning to a bitter East Coast winter but the welcome will no doubt be as warm. It may be reminiscent of Princess Diana's first visit to New York. Poignantly, Diana never came here with her husband Prince Charles. Kate and William are the next generation and very much a couple.
Wherever they go in Manhattan, the royals will be greeted by cameras and big crowds.
America's fascination with this fairytale is unmatched.
Unlike Diana's day, many of the best royal moments come now from cell phones belonging to well-wishers.
No doubt Kate will be asked how she is feeling after her bout of morning sickness -- with her entourage looking-on to make sure she doesn't over do it.
