The death of a teenage girl in a Welsh village in an apparent copycat suicide has raised fears she may have been part of an Internet death cult already blamed for the deaths of six young men.
Natasha Randall, 17, who was found hanged in her bedroom in Blaengarw, near Bridgend, south Wales, on Thursday, was the seventh person believed to have killed themselves in the local area in the past 12 months, the UK's Press Association reported.
Police are examining Randall's computer after the teenager posted messages on a social networking site, Bebo, prior to her death dedicated to 20-year-old Liam Clarke, who was found hanged in a Bridgend park last month.
The message read: "RIP Clarky boy!! gonna miss ya! always remember the gd times! love ya x. Me too!"
Messages have also been posted on Randall's page since her death, PA said. "RIP tash - can't believe you done it!" one said. Another read: "Heyaa Babe. Just Poppin In To Say I Let My Balloon Off With A Message On It, Hope You Got It Ok And It Made You Laugh Up There."
Five more men aged between 17 and 27 have been found hanged in the area since January 2007.
Speaking to the Daily Mail newspaper, Liam Clarke's father, Kevin Clarke, said the seven who had killed themselves appeared to have known each other.
"We don't know if it is some weird cult or copycat suicides or if they have had some bizarre pact to kill themselves," Clarke said.
Superintendent Tim Jones, divisional commander of Bridgend Police, said the investigation into Randall's death would include examining her online contacts.
"There is a growing trend for young people to communicate through telephone text messaging and also over the Internet, whether it's e-mail or within chatroom forums. This is all part of conducting a thorough investigation," Jones said.
A spokesperson for Bebo told CNN that it was committed to working closely with the authorities to provide any assistance which would help them with their inquiries into the suicides.
"The loss of any young life is always distressing. We have close relationships with our member community, law enforcement agencies, and public safety partners -- including Samaritans -- to provide support and advice for our users. We are committed to providing our members with the safest possible environment online."
Anthony Langan, a spokesman for the Samaritans support service, told CNN that links with Bebo had enabled it to reach young people via the Internet.
"Teenagers are one of the most 'at risk' groups and increasingly use the internet to access advice from support services which they may be less inclined to seek through other routes," Langan said.
"Suicide is an issue for society as a whole; the internet provides a window into the issues young people are dealing with." E-mail to a friend
