Investigators searching for clues in the Abigail Hernandez kidnapping case reportedly have a new focus: a storage unit on the suspect's property.
That's where the teenager was held captive, sources told New England Cable News.
The rust-colored storage container, which some neighbors referred to as an above-ground bunker, was surrounded by crime scene tape on the day of suspect Nathaniel E. Kibby's arrest, CNN affiliate WMUR reported.
The New Hampshire Attorney General's office declined to comment on those reports to CNN.
Assistant Attorney General Jane Hall said arrest and search warrants in the case will remain sealed for now. A probable cause hearing is scheduled for August 12, when evidence might be presented detailing how the teenager was found.
"It's remarkable how well she's doing," Hall said. "Just to be able to endure what she did ... under any set of circumstances."
Hernandez, 15, sat just steps away from her alleged kidnapper at an arraignment hearing on Tuesday.
Kibby, 34, was arrested Monday and charged with one count of felony kidnapping for allegedly confining Hernandez on October 9 "with a purpose to commit an offense against her," according to prosecutors. He was ordered held on $1 million bail.
His lawyer, Jesse Friedman, did not enter a plea at Tuesday's arraignment hearing, arguing that the charge against Kibby is unclear because prosecutors have sealed the arrest warrant.
"I have no idea what they're alluding to," Friedman said in court.
The judge denied Friedman's motion to unseal the warrant.
Hernandez returned to her home last week, more than nine months after she went missing on the way home from school.
Hernandez's case drew national attention when the then 14-year-old girl went missing last fall. But the mystery surrounding her disappearance only deepened when authorities and her family revealed few details upon her return last Sunday.
Investigators said Hernandez provided police with details of her kidnapping that were "sufficient" to warrant Kibby's arrest Monday.
In a statement Friday, her family said they were cooperating with law enforcement and "trying to focus on the peace and joy of the moment of Abby's return."
"Right now, Abby is resting, extremely tired and in deteriorated health, and has lost a lot of weight. She is working to build her strength back and we hope soon she will be back on solid foods," her family said. "We appreciate people's vigilance as they share the sketch photo that law enforcement has distributed and we hope that very soon this long, long ordeal can come to some closure."
On Monday, Hernandez thanked those who searched for her while she was missing.
"I wish that I could personally thank everyone who looked for me. My gratitude is beyond words," she said in a statement. "It's an incredible feeling to be home and I believe in my heart that your hopes and prayers played a major role in my release. Thank you all for the welcome home."
CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet and Marina Carver contributed to this report.
