Australian novelist Julia Leigh's first film as writer-director was inspired by a dream she had. Or maybe it was a nightmare? Judging by the movie, it could have been a bit of both.
Emily Browning -- the doll-like child actress from "Lemony Snicket" who graduated to the status of action-babe in "Sucker Punch" earlier this year -- plays Lucy, a college student who takes on a series of menial jobs over the course of the film, including waitress, lab rat, secretary and sex toy.
In the brilliantly creepy first scene, she somehow refrains from retching as a lab researcher threads several feet of tubing down her throat. It's a strong indication that whatever else, Lucy has the willpower to dissociate mind from body -- to mentally switch off.
This remains her defining characteristic throughout: a kind of abstention that serves her well in trying circumstances, but which also makes Lucy a frustratingly vague, ill-defined personality. With her pale skin and wide eyes, Browning has a particular pre-Raphaelite beauty that's oddly impassive. It's as if she's sleepwalking through the story -- or, perhaps, this is her own erotic/masochistic dream?
Interviewed for another position by the immaculately coiffed and polished Clara (a chilly, regal Rachel Blake), Lucy uncomplainingly strips down to her undies for an intimate physical inspection. Clara apparently likes what she sees, and next thing you know Lucy is serving champagne to a dinner table of aristocrats who get their kicks by ignoring the near-naked servants.
This proves to be something of an audition for a better-paid gig at Clara's country mansion, where rich old men pay handsomely for a night with a beautiful young girl. House rules permit anything short of actual penetration or physical harm. Meanwhile the girl is so heavily drugged she sleeps through the entire experience.
Where's the fun in that, you might think? Is Leigh delving into the murky waters of female sexuality, or making a political point about exploitation and prostitution? Again, the movie seems to want to do both, though it doesn't go far enough down either route to reach any firm conclusions.
Sticking with a mostly static camera and lengthy takes, Leigh seems to be shooting for the kind of slow, somber surrealism of Luis Bunuel's foray into similar subject matter, "Belle de Jour". But she's not that accomplished a director -- not yet, anyway -- and the film sometimes drifts into a stilted somnolence. Scenes of Lucy's everyday life away from work -- bickering with flat-mates, or caring for a dying friend -- fail to shed much light on the character or her motivations, and are shot in the same monotonous rhythm.
More effective are the quietly ugly, anti-erotic chamber pieces: the one-sided encounters between the slumbering Lucy and the aging, all-but impotent clients. These scenes are emotionally and visually frank, shedding a hard, cold light on what men want from the opposite sex.
In the end, there's enough here to make us see why Leigh felt compelled to turn her dream into a movie, even if this suggestive, frustratingly elusive effort is not an entirely pleasurable experience for the rest of us.
