(CNN Student News) -- December 6, 2013
Nelson Mandela, former leader of South Africa and "the world's most famous political prisoner," has died. In Friday's program, CNN Student News looks back at the life, legacy and accomplishments of this Nobel Peace Prize winner. We also remember the 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor, and we report on a strike by many American fast food workers and the response by the restaurant industry.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How was news of the 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor covered differently than how major events are covered today?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What world leader once endured 27 years in prison before he became South Africa's first black president?
2. Who was president of the United States when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941?
3. Viktor Yanukovich is the president of what European country?
4. Fans of what NFL team recently caused a small earthquake by cheering at CenturyLink field?
5. What is the destination of a spacecraft launched by China on Monday?
6. What country triggered an international dispute when it claimed a section of airspace over Asia?
7. What international event, symbolized by red ribbons, occurs on December 1?
8. How are chimpanzees classified: as monkeys, apes or lemurs?
9. Yingluck Shinawatra is the prime minister of what Asian country?
10. In economics, what does GDP stand for?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
South Africa
North America
Pearl Harbor, Hawaii
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
