The  Justice Department, as promised, moved Tuesday to block a court ruling  preventing use of government funds for embryonic stem cell  research.
The lower-court decision that bars the use of publicly funded stem-cell work had stunned the Obama administration, which had vowed to appeal.
"The government is  seeking a stay of the court's injunction to prevent the irreparable human and  financial harm that could occur if these life-saving research projects are forced  to abruptly shut down," said Justice Department spokeswoman Tracy  Schmaler.
"The court's order causes  irrevocable harm to the millions of extremely sick or injured people who stand  to benefit from continuing research as well as to the taxpayers who have spent  hundreds of millions of dollars on this research," a Justice Department  statement said.
The Justice lawyers  filed the notice of appeal and the proposed stay with U.S. District Court  Judge Royce Lamberth, who had granted the injunction sought by plaintiffs opposed  to research in which embryos had been destroyed.
"We've said from day one that embryonic  stem cell research is a top priority for this administration, and we're going to  do everything possible to prevent the potentially catastrophic  consequences of this injunction," said White House spokesman Reid Cherlin.
The government said if  Lamberth has not granted the stay by September 7, the government would "present  their stay request to the Court of Appeals the following day".
In that event, a  three-judge panel of the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, would likely rule quickly  on the request for a stay, while it schedules briefs and arguments on the legal  merits of the case which may take months.
Government lawyers filed  the appeal on behalf of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, the National Institutes  of Health, and its director, Francis Collins.
Collins said NIH has  invested over $546 million in taxpayers' money in human embryonic stem cell  research since 2001. In a 12-page statement attached to the appeal, Collins  said the court order prevents NIH from providing $54 million in funds to 24  human embryonic research projects currently under way that were expecting to  receive funds within the next month. He said another 199 grants would be  discontinued for projects which were to be awarded funding after the September  30 deadline ordered by the court.
Judge Lamberth had ruled  that all embryonic stem-cell research involves destroying embryos. He said a  provision of federal spending bills "unambiguously prohibits the use of federal  funds for all research in which a human embryo is  destroyed".
The legal arguments with  which Lamberth sided were brought by researchers opposed to use of embryonic  stem cells. Plaintiffs included a group that seeks adoptive parents for human  embryos created through in vitro fertilization, the non-profit Christian  Medical Association and others.
CNN Senior White House Correspondent Ed Henry contributed to this report.
