The oil spill on the Gulf Coast has states and visitors bureaus working hard to keep the public updated and reassure beach-bound travelers.
Here are some of the latest updates from destinations affected by the oil disaster:
Northwest Florida
The Escambia County Health Department has rescinded a health advisory that had been issued for beaches stretching from the Florida-Alabama border to the entrance of the Perdido Unit of the Gulf Islands National Seashore.
Government officials said that there was no oil sheen or oil slick observed in the water from the high water mark out to 100 yards from shore.
Over the weekend, isolated tar balls appeared along several beaches of south Walton County, but all 15 beach communities remain open, according to the Walton County Tourist Development Council's website.
A no-swim advisory has been lifted for Fort Walton Beach, Destin and Okaloosa Island, according to the Emerald Coast Convention and Visitors Bureau, which represents the three destinations.
"While crews continue to work to remove any remaining tar balls that may have floated ashore, visitors and locals alike are invited to enjoy the beaches as they normally would," the visitors bureau website said.
iReport: See photos from Okaloosa Island
Dime-size to 5-inch tar balls continue to wash up in widely scattered areas of northwest Florida, but all of the state's beaches remain open, according to Visit Florida, the state's tourism corporation.
"There have been no reports of Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill-related oil products reaching the shore beyond the Northwest Florida region," Visit Florida's website said.
iReport: Share your photos of affected beaches
Scattered tar balls and oil patches have affected Panama City Beach. "The beaches are open and the swimming is still safe," the area's visitors bureau website said.
The water at Pensacola Beach is also open for swimming, according to the Pensacola Bay Area Convention and Visitors Bureau.
"Very light and sporadic tar balls have been reported on Pensacola Beach," the bureau's website said.
Gulf Islands National Seashore
All of the Gulf Islands National Seashore sites, which are in Florida and Mississippi, are open, the National Park Service's website said.
Fort Pickens, Florida, has experienced tar balls on shore, and skimming boats have been collecting oil offshore at Petit Bois Island, Mississippi, and Perdido Pass.
"Surveillance for oiling continues throughout all park areas on a daily basis. Cleanup operations continue throughout the park," the website said.
Gulf Shores and Orange Beach, Alabama
Gulf Shores and Orange Beach, Alabama, have experienced significant oiling, according to the Alabama Gulf Coast Convention and Visitors Bureau.
"The beaches are open and visitors are still welcome to sunbathe and walk the beach, but we strongly suggest they swim in a pool or enjoy our many off-beach activities," the site said.
The Alabama Department of Public Health has issued an advisory against swimming in waters off Gulf Shores, Orange Beach and Fort Morgan or in bay waters close to Fort Morgan, Bayou St. John, Terry Cove, Cotton Bayou and Old River.
Grand Isle, Louisiana
Oil is affecting more than 45 miles of Louisiana coast, according to a state emergency website, although most of the coast is unaffected.
"The primary affected area is from the mouth of the Mississippi River extending east. Over 75 percent of Louisiana's coastal waters extend westward from the mouth of the Mississippi River," according to the Cajun Coast Visitors and Convention Bureau website.
Grand Isle has closed its public beach, the site said.
