Cameroon's longtime president, Paul Biya, has officially declared his candidacy for the October 9 presidential polls despite calls for him to step down after nearly 30 years in power.
Biya's party, the ruling Cameroon's People Democratic Movement party (CPDM), sent a high-profile delegation Sunday to the headquarters of ELECAM, the country's electoral commission, to cast his name on the list along with at least 50 other presidential candidates, including three women.
The move by the 78-year-old president to seek another seven-year term in office has drawn sharp criticism from the opposition Social Democratic Front, whose leader, John Fru Ndi, is also running for president.
In the opposition-held stronghold of Bamenda, the capital of the country's Northwest region, thousands of government troops from the Rapid Intervention Battalion were stationed in strategic locations to keep order after Biya's announcement.
In 2008, Biya erased term limits from the constitution. That move -- coupled with rocketing food prices -- fueled anti-government riots that human rights groups, cited by the U.S. State Department, say killed approximately 100 people. The government of Cameroon put the number of deaths at 40.
"We are worried about the fate of the youths in Cameroon. We do not have jobs and the cost for basic necessities like food, health and even water remain record-high. Cameroon is not to be ruled only by French-speaking citizens. We have English citizens as well," Bamenda resident Peter Ambe told CNN.
As many as 80% of young people in Cameroon are unemployed, according to opposition figures, while the government says unemployment is at 76%. Ambe accuses Biya and his administration of corruption and embezzlement of state funds.
As the political unrest simmered, many politicians voiced concerns that the so-called "Arab Spring" -- in which authoritarian governments in the Middle East and North Africa were being pushed out by popular uprisings -- was inching its way to sub-Saharan Africa, starting with Cameroon.
In June, the opposition SDF called for a boycott of voter registration and disruption of the polls, denouncing the country's elections commission due to its makeup of all Biya appointees.
Two months later, the SDF backed off of its threatened disruptions after the government agreed to revise the composition to the elections commission and create better conditions for free and fair elections. But critics charge that Biya has consistently bypassed the constitution and doctored poll results in his favor, still putting ELECAM under his control.
The European Union recently provided funding to increase voter awareness in Cameroon, as well as to train journalists and observers for the October 9 election.
Supporters of the ruling CPDM party told CNN that criticisms against the president should be measured against his accomplishments, and noted that the country enjoys relative peace and stability.
"Mr. Biya is the people's choice," Prof. Elvis Ngolle Ngolle, a senior cabinet minister, told CNN.
