Editor's note: CNN.com has a business partnership with CareerBuilder.com, which serves as the exclusive provider of job listings and services to CNN.com.
(CareerBuilder.com) -- Finding a career that allows you to travel is not always an easy task, but if you're a college grad looking to make an adventure of your gap year, a professional looking for a change of pace or anyone looking for cultural exposure, a job abroad may be the right choice for you.
A tourist gets a traditional massage in Thailand.
Not all jobs are translatable to international positions without a little extra learning or language proficiency -- and you will need to acquire working permits and other legal documentation -- but here are some jobs that can take you away if you're up for the move:
1. Teacher  It's not news that teachers aren't highly paid, but if you're an instructor in South Dakota, you're among the lowest-paid in the nation, with an average salary of $33,236, according to a 2003-04 survey by the American Federation of Teachers.
Try taking your skills abroad. Learning English is in high demand internationally, and Germany, Switzerland and South Korea are among the countries that pay the largest teacher salaries.
South Korea's median teacher salaries range between $25,000 and $60,000, and the country has a positive reputation for providing high income to educators. Salaries in Switzerland range from $65,000 to $80,000. An added perk to employment in Germany is that state employees are regarded as permanent workers, meaning that they are paid necessary social insurances.
Requirements: A four-year degree in education or a related field, teaching experience and a TESL/TEFL certificate. You will also need an international work visa and work permits, which can be obtained personally or through the school that employs you.
2. Chef If you are an established chef, international hotels and restaurants may offer the opportunity to build on your career overseas while, in many cases, offering you room and board for a minimum costs. In the United States, the median annual income of a head chef/chef is $40,000, and $43,000 if you work as a chef for a hotel.
Kingsbrook USA Inc. is one company that works to place chefs in international regions. They reported England's hotel chef positions as offering £14000, or roughly $26,730 U.S. dollars per year for Chef deParties. Kingsbrook also reported between $32,458 and $38,186 per year for Sous Chefs and between $38,186 and $47,732 per year for Head Chef.
Requirements: An associate degree and at least three years of culinary experience. Letters of Reference, transcripts and health records and exams will also be required.
3. Massage therapist Massage therapists in the United States make a median annual salary of $30,000. But take your expertise to the seas, and you could earn between $33,600 and $45,600, according to Cruise Job Line. In addition to changing stationary surroundings, working on cruise lines offers the opportunity to see new people and network beyond the limitations that can be created in a spa environment. The living accommodations may be small, but they save money on housing costs, and cruise lines usually offer full health coverage onboard the ship and within United States territory.
Requirements: You'll need a high school diploma or associate degree, and a certification in massage therapy. Requirements for accreditation vary by state. U.S. citizens pursuing massage therapy for cruise lines also need a passport that is valid for at least three months after the end of the contract. A physical examination, and in some cases, immunization may be required.
4. Au Pair/Nanny In exchange for caring for your boss' children and caring out light housekeeping or cooking duties, au pair positions offer a chance to travel abroad with room and board and a living stipend. The job will enable access that tourists are not privy to, but the work shouldn't be taken lightly.
The median annual income for company-employed nannies is $29,500 in the United States. An au pair in France can expect to earn between 240 and 250 euro, or an estimated $309 to $322 per month for a 33-hour week. The pay varies internationally, but the overall perk is the opportunity to afford to see another part of the world.
Requirements: A passport, work visa and an international driver's license. You will also need to acquire medical insurance and undergo health screenings. Agency placement is a better choice for acquiring an au pair position for both safety reasons and to aid with acquiring your work permit. While au pair experience is not necessary, most au pairs have held related positions.
5. Caterer Catering managers make an average median salary of $35,590 in the United States, and while other countries offer this position, the commute from national to international can literally be a matter of taste.
Caterers who create a name for themselves in the U.S. industry can earn a trusted reputation and follow clients to overseas events. Rock stars and celebrities may have a variety of different catering companies working for them throughout the United States, but larger acts and A-listers like to have a trusted source to make sure their diet is in line with their requests. Working for one of these companies may put you on tour with the band, and if national gigs go well, you could find yourself overseas for the next tour.
Requirements: Chefs and management have culinary training, but staff servers may have little or no experience. To garner a spot on a worldwide tour, a caterer will generally have a lot of experience. Passports are needed for international work. E-mail to a friend
Copyright CareerBuilder.com 2007. All rights reserved. The information contained in this article may not be published, broadcast or otherwise distributed without the prior written authority
Candace Corner is a writer for CareerBuilder.com.
