The kids have spoken.
Winners of the Children's and Teen Choice Book Awards were announced Wednesday night at the seventh Children's Book Week Gala in New York, part of the the 95th Children's Book Week. Rush Limbaugh won author of the year for "Rush Revere and the Brave Pilgrims: Time-Travel Adventures with Exceptional Americans," while Grace Lee won illustrator of the year for "Sofia the First: The Floating Palace."
These are the only awards chosen by children and teens in support of their favorite books, according to the Children's Book Council. Each year, about 13,000 children across the United States read newly published children and young adult books within their classes through the International Reading Association, in partnership with the Children's Book Council.
Kids voted for their favorites online with the help of their parents and teachers, or educators submitted group ballots after polling their students. The teen finalists were chosen through a joint program with Teenreads.com, part of The Book Report Network. The top author and illustrator finalists were determined by the bestseller lists. Voters were also allowed to write in finalists that weren't listed. The Children's Book Council's vetting process ensures that voting is done by children and teens, or submitted from classroom ballot boxes, they said.
"The idea was born out of the understanding that when kids are given a voice and agency in their reading choices, they tend to be a lot more excited about reading," said Nicole Deming of the Children's Book Council. "It's so important to get those gateway titles to them that will lead them to a lifelong investment in the written word."
Founded by the Children's Book Council and in support of the nonprofit Every Child a Reader, the event was hosted by Kate DiCamillo, author of "Flora and Ulysses: The Illuminated Adventures" and National Ambassador for Young People's Literature.
Former "Reading Rainbow" host LeVar Burton was awarded with the Impact Award for his efforts to instill "a lifelong love of reading in children."
Here's the list of winners:
Book of the Year, kindergarten through second grade
Winner: "The Day the Crayons Quit" by Drew Daywalt, illustrated by Oliver Jeffers
Finalists:
"Alphabet Trucks" by Samantha R. Vamos, illustrated by Ryan O'Rourke
"Chamelia and the New Kid in Class" by Ethan Long
"Mustache Baby" by Bridget Heos, illustrated by Joy Ang
"Bear and Bee" by Sergio Ruzzier
Book of the Year, third through fourth grade
Winner: "Bugs in My Hair!" by David Shannon
Finalists:
"Bean Dog and Nugget: The Ball" by Charise Mericle Harper
"Cougar: A Cat With Many Names" by Stephen Person
"The Matchbox Diary" by Paul Fleischman, illustrated by Bagram Ibatoulline
"Pancho Rabbit and the Coyote: A Migrant's Tale" by Duncan Tonatiuh
Book of the Year, fifth through sixth grade
Winner: "National Geographic Kids Myths Busted!" by Emily Krieger, illustrated by Tom Nick Cocotos
Finalists:
"Hokey Pokey" by Jerry Spinelli
"Prince Puggly of Spud" by Robert Paul Weston
"Lawless: Book 1" by Jeffrey Salane
"Battling Boy" by Paul Pope
Book of the Year, teens
Winner: "Allegiant" by Veronica Roth
Finalists:
"Clockwork Princess" by Cassandra Clare
"Eleanor & Park" by Rainbow Rowell
"Smoke" by Ellen Hopkins
"The 5th Wave" by Rick Yancey
Illustrator of the Year
Winner: Grace Lee, "Sofia the First: The Floating Palace"
Finalists:
Victoria Kann, "Emeraldalicious"
Anna Dewdney, "Llama Llama and the Bully Goat"
James Dean, "Pete the Cat: The Wheels on the Bus"
Oliver Jeffers, "The Day the Crayons Quit"
Author of the Year
Winner: Rush Limbaugh, "Rush Revere and the Brave Pilgrims: Time-Travel Adventures with Exceptional Americans"
Finalists:
Veronica Roth, "Allegiant"
Rachel Renee Russell, "Dork Diaries 6: Tales From A Not-So-Happy Heartbreaker"
Rick Riordan,  "The House of Hades"
Jeff Kinney, "Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Hard Luck"
What are the most popular books among kids and teens in your household or classroom? Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page.
