(CNN Student News) -- October 25, 2013
The U.S. has been accused of spying on several of its allies. Learn about the allegations and the American response in Friday's edition of CNN Student News. Plus, we report on the early arrival of some winter weather, and we offer some tips to reduce test-related stress.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might news coverage in a country accused of spying differ from the coverage in the countries that were allegedly spied on?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What kind of instrument from a Titanic victim fetched $1.7 million at a recent auction?
2. The winter solstice, the day with the least amount of daylight, falls on what date this year?
3. Who is the U.S. secretary of Health and Human Services?
4. The word "smog" comes from what two other words?
5. The Economic and Social Council, the Trusteeship Council and the Security Council are all bodies of what international organization?
6. Which of these is considered the "stress hormone": cortisol, insulin, or testosterone?
7. What type of disaster recently destroyed hundreds of homes in Australia?
8. The United Nations was established almost immediately after the end of what war?
9. When does hurricane season officially end?
10. Who is Germany's chancellor?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Europe
Germany; France
North America
Mexico; Kansas City, Missouri
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
