Brazil warmed up for next month's clash against Argentina with a 2-0 win over Ukraine in another friendly international on Monday night.
Dani Alves and Alexandre Pato scored in each half to give coach Mano Menezes his third successive victory since taking over from Dunga following a disappointing World Cup campaign in South Africa.
It was the first defeat in four matches for Ukraine's temporary coach Yuriy Kalitvintsev, who took over in August when Myron Markevych resigned, and was a low-key affair attracting just 13,000 spectators.
The Euro 2012 co-hosts thought they had equalized just before halftime in the match in Derby -- a city with the largest Ukrainian population in England -- but Oleksandr Aliev's effort was ruled out.
It was a successful return to the country for new Brazil captain Robinho, one of two survivors from the World Cup quarterfinal defeat by the Netherlands along with Alves, following his move from Manchester City to AC Milan.
Alves and Pato both scored in last Thursday's 3-0 win over Iran in Abu Dhabi, and the Barcelona rightback broke the deadlock in the 25th minute when he volleyed home Robinho's cross past goalkeeper Andriy Dykan thanks to a deflection off Oleksandr Romanchuk.
AC Milan forward Pato hit the post 10 minutes later as Ukraine were not punished for losing possession, with strike partner Carlos Eduardo firing over the bar from the rebound.
Ukraine were missing veteran Andriy Shevchenko up front, but almost leveled when Aliev had the ball in the net only for the goal to be disallowed due to an off-the-ball incident involving Artem Milevskiy.
Ruslan Rotan hit the post from distance five minutes after the break, but Brazil doubled the lead in the 64th minute when Pato took Eduardo's low cross, turned his man and fired past Dykan.
Brazil next face an Argentina team reeling from a first-ever defeat by Japan in Tokyo last week, with the match to be played in Doha, Qatar on November 17.
Argentina will next year host the Copa America tournament, with Brazil seeking to defend the title.
In Monday's other international, Jamaica defeated Caribbean rivals Trinidad and Tobago 1-0 in Kingston thanks to a 19th-minute penalty from New York Red Bulls striker Dane Richards.
Richards scored his second international goal after Eric Vernan was fouled as Jamaica followed up the 3-1 win in Macoya in August in the home-and-away series.
