A California judge ruled Thursday that a boy who murdered his father, a neo-Nazi leader, will serve his sentence in a yet-to-be-named juvenile detention facility.
The boy was 10 when he killed his father, Jeffrey Hall. He is now 13 and could remain at the facility until he is 23.
Hall was asleep on a couch in his family's Riverside home when his son killed him on May 1, 2011, according to authorities. CNN is not naming the boy because he is a juvenile.
Hall had been the Southwestern states regional director for the National Socialist Movement, according to an online tribute to him from the group's leader, Jeff Schoep. One of the nation's biggest, most well-known neo-Nazi organizations, the National Socialist Movement idolizes Adolf Hitler and touts virulent rhetoric against those who are Jewish, immigrants and not "pure-blood whites," according to the Southern Poverty Law Center civil rights group.
Prosecutors contend the victim's neo-Nazi background is not linked to his death, saying the young killer's concerns about abuse and his family being split up were more significant factors.
"It was our belief that this would have happened even if (Hall) was not part of the National Socialist Movement," said John Hall, a spokesman for the Riverside County district attorney's office. "This was done more on a domestic level."
The boy was detained in juvenile halls in Riverside County after the shooting. His lawyers initially sought an insanity defense but later dropped that approach and argued their client didn't fully grasp the ramifications of what he did, the spokesman said.
The murder trial before county Judge Jean Leonard -- and not a jury -- got underway October 30, 2012, continuing off-and-on for about 10 days over four months, ending January.
As there are no "guilty" or "not guilty" verdicts in her California juvenile court, Leonard instead found it "true" that the boy had committed second-degree murder and understood his actions were wrong.
CNN's Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
