(CNN Student News) -- March 11, 2014
There are still more questions than answers in the disappearance of a Malaysia Airways passenger plane, and we'll explain what Interpol is and the role it's playing in the investigation. We also look at ice levels in the Great Lakes and how ships will get through the freeze. Also covered: Snow helps ease a U.S. drought, and a "new" dinosaur is identified in Portugal.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were producing a news show, what kind of audio and images might you include in a report about a newly discovered species?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Interpol
2. Lake Michigan
3. Torvosaurus gurneyi
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What happened to Malaysia Air Flight 370? In what areas are rescuers searching? What is Interpol? How is this organization involved? What suspicious circumstances have surfaced around this flight? According to Interpol, how many times last year were travelers able to board planes without having their passports screened against Interpol's databases? According to the video, why is this happening?
2. Who is Edward Snowden? Why is he currently living in Russia? What is the U.S. government's view of his actions? How do his supporters see him?
3. Why are icebreaking ships vital on the Great Lakes? How do these ships work? According to the video, what percentage of the Great Lakes was covered in ice this year?
4. According to the video, what is one upside of a snowy winter for some farmers? How can this result benefit a farm's output? How much rain does 20 inches of snow produce? What region of the U.S. could benefit most from this winter's melting snows? A year ago, what percentage of the U.S. was experiencing drought conditions? What percentage is experiencing drought now? What region is expected to continue experiencing drought?
5. What newly discovered dinosaur species might have been the largest predator to have roamed Europe? Where was this species discovered? How do scientists say it compared in age and size to the well-known Tyrannosaurus Rex?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you think can be done to further verify the passports of airline passengers? If it turns out that there is a link between stolen passports and the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, do you think more countries will take this course of action? Why or why not?
2. What is your opinion of Edward Snowden's leaking of classified information about NSA activities? Do you think his actions protected personal privacy rights, do you think they jeopardized national security, or do you think they did both? Explain.
3. How might several consecutive drought seasons impact a region's economy?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
