The man accused of shooting and paralyzing a U.S. Army soldier at a homecoming party in the soldier's honor faces one count of attempted murder, the spokesman for the San Bernardino, California, district attorney said Tuesday.
District Attorney Michael Ramos filed the charge Tuesday against 19-year-old Ruben Jurado, spokesman Christopher Lee said. He also filed "four special allegations involving premeditation and the use and discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury," the DA's office said in a statement.
Jurado was being held at the West Valley Detention Center and was expected to be arraigned Wednesday or Thursday.
Jurado is accused of shooting Army Spc. Christopher Sullivan on Friday night at a homecoming party in Sullivan's native San Bernardino. Sullivan was there celebrating his recent return to California from Kentucky, where he was stationed while recovering from wounds sustained in a suicide bombing a year ago in Afghanistan.
Sullivan narrowly survived the attack, which killed five members of his unit and left him with a cracked collar bone and brain damage, according to the San Bernardino County Sun. Sullivan was awarded the Purple Heart after the incident.
He was shot at the party after an "argument and physical confrontation" with Jurado, San Bernardino Police Department Sgt. Pete Higgins told CNN.
Accompanied by an attorney, Jurado turned himself in to authorities in Chino Hills early Monday afternoon, said Lt. Gwendolyn Waters.
The fight at the party broke out after Jurado and Sullivan's younger brother began arguing about football, the brothers' mother, Suzanne Sullivan, told CNN.
Jurado "pulled out a gun and shot him twice," she said.
Higgins said Jurado fled the scene after the shooting.
Sullivan was rushed to a hospital, where he was being treated, officials said.
"Right now, my son is hanging in physically," Suzanne Sullivan told CNN. "He's on 100% life support. He can move his head and he responds through nodding and blinking to us. His eyes aren't always open, but we try to encourage him to do so as often as possible."
She said her son tried to ask what happened to him at the hospital and when they told him he wanted to know, "Why?"
"We told him what it was about and he just closed his eyes," Suzanne Sullivan told CNN.
She said she was told that the suspect and her son might have gone to school and played football together. She also said she couldn't believe what had happened to her son, who she said joined the Army to try and help her out.
"He's a wonderful son. ... the best person you could meet on this Earth," she said. "He's a giver, not a taker, and just wants to be there for and help people. He was so happy when he joined the Army, because he really wanted to defend his country."
The mother and her family have been at her son's hospital bedside. A fellow soldier from Christopher Sullivan's 101st Airborne Division brought the infantry's flag to the hospital, Suzanne Sullivan told CNN.
"He loved his platoon. He loved his fellow soldiers," she said as she began to sob. "He was so proud to serve our country."
Tears rolled down Christopher Sullivan's face when he saw the flag of the Screaming Eagles, the nickname for the division, his mother said.
"I asked Chris if he wanted to me to hang it on the wall or cover him in it," Suzanne Sullivan said. "He nodded that he wanted me to cover him with it. Once I did that he started to cry, which made me start to cry. It's been really hard on all of us."
She said she was distraught over the news that her son, who was already recovering from injuries sustained during his tour abroad, had returned to the United States only to be paralyzed during a party.
"He once told me that if defending this country takes his life, so be it," she said. "But to see he survived that, and now for this to happen to him, just breaks my heart."
Suzanne Sullivan said her family is having a difficult time coming to terms with what happened.
"We just want justice to be done," she said.
CNN's Carey Bodenheimer contributed to this report.
