Washington (CNN)  -- Former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin hit the campaign trail Friday, delivering the keynote address at a Washington  fundraiser for an anti-abortion group supporting socially conservative women running for office in the upcoming midterm elections.
"All across this country, women are standing up and speaking out for common sense solutions," Palin said at the Susan B. Anthony List Celebration of Life breakfast. They are forming a "new conservative feminist movement" that will help make "government work again for us," she said.
The Susan B. Anthony List describes itself on its website as part of the "nerve center of the pro-life movement and political process." In 2008, the group founded "Team Sarah," a coalition of women supporting Palin's vice presidential bid.
During her speech, Palin ripped abortion rights opponents in the Democratic Party who "promised to hold firm" during the health care debate, but ultimately backed "the most pro-abortion president who ever occupied the White House."
"We won't forget," she promised. "Elections have consequences."
Palin mentioned, among other things, her daughter Bristol's decision not to have an abortion after becoming pregnant at age 17. "It was an embarrassing time for her," Palin told the audience. But "choosing life was the right road."
Palin said national media coverage of the pregnancy "kind of made it rough" on Bristol and sent a not-too-subtle message to other young women that it's easier to choose to have an abortion.
Turning to other policy disputes, Palin also slammed the Obama administration's fiscal program, declaring that "these policies coming out of D.C. right now" are putting the country on the road to "national insolvency."
She praised the conservative Tea Party movement, calling it a "movement of the people" that the media has unfairly characterized as a group of violent racists. "This awakening is very, very healthy," she said.
Palin's speech was part of a midterm campaign swing that is scheduled to take her to North Carolina on Friday to address a National Rifle Association meeting.
In addition, she will travel South Carolina to endorse GOP state Rep. Nikki Haley for governor. The state's scandal-tarred Republican governor, Mark Sanford, is term-limited and will leave office in January.
"It is a tremendous honor to receive Gov. Palin's endorsement," Haley said in a statement released Thursday. "Sarah Palin has energized the conservative movement like few others in our generation."
Palin has also endorsed, among others, former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina in California's GOP Senate primary.
Palin is set to release a new book in November -- "America By Heart: Reflections on Family, Faith, and Flag." Her first book, "Going Rogue," was a national bestseller.
Palin has become one of the GOP's biggest stars since being tapped as Sen. John McCain's running mate during the 2008 presidential race. In addition to being an author, Palin has become a sought-after speaker and a contributor on Fox News.
CNN's Alan Silverleib, Peter Hamby and Martina Stewart contributed to this report
