(CNN Student News) -- February 23, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• New Zealand • Libya • Bahrain
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: It is Wednesday, February 23rd, and we have a lot of international stories to tell you about today on CNN Student News. My name is Carl Azuz. We're starting off in New Zealand.
First Up: Earthquake in New Zealand
AZUZ: The earthquake that jolted the South Pacific country yesterday left one of its biggest cities in ruins. Christchurch, located on New Zealand's east coast, was badly shaken during lunch hour. It was a 6.3-magnitude quake, followed by strong aftershocks, and it was heartbreaking, according to New Zealand's prime minister. Dozens are dead. Parts of the city, as we said, are in ruins. Rescuers are streaming in from all over the country and all over the region, rescue being the nation's top priority at this point. 80 percent of Christchurch is without power and phone lines are down, making communication challenging for many survivors. This quake was actually an aftershock itself, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. New Zealand's been rattled by a series of earthquakes since last September. This one was the worst, causing what could be New Zealand's darkest day, according to its leader.
Yacht Hijacking
AZUZ: What started off as an around-the-world boating trip ended in tragedy on Tuesday. Four Americans were shot and killed by pirates who hijacked their ship in the Indian Ocean last week. The U.S. military says 19 pirates were involved in the hijacking. Four of them were killed. The other 15, captured. In these photos, you can see the ship, a 58-foot yacht called the Quest, along with its owners, Jean and Scott Adams. The couple, with two friends, changed course during their boating rally. They ended up in a part of the Indian Ocean where a lot of pirate attacks happen. Zain Verjee talked with a security expert to get an idea of how these pirates work. Here's part of that conversation.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
ZAIN VERJEE, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Just walk someone through how pirates hijack ships and, geographically, what do they do and then where do they end up?
TIM HART, MARITIME UNDERWATER SECURITY CONSULTANTS: OK, well, pirates are predominantly based in the area called Puntland, which is this area here. It's in the the northeast area of Somalia. And realistically, what they'll do is they'll base themselves out of the pirate towns using mother ships, but disperse themselves. But they'll move further out into the Indian Ocean using these mother ships until they can find suitable targets. And some groups will obviously go further north, as we can see. And some will go further down south and stick to the coast of Tanzania or deep into the Indian Ocean. What they'll do is they'll move further out, they'll identify the targets and use these small attack skiffs to try and get on board. Once they've got on board and they've seized control of the vessel and the crew, they'll take the ships back to the anchorages off the coast of Somalia, and they'll sit there and negotiate with the shipping companies to pay a multi-million dollar ransom.
(END VIDEO)
I.D. ME
JOHN LISK, CNN STUDENT NEWS: See if you can I.D. Me! I'm a country that borders the Mediterranean Sea. I'm home to part of the Sahara Desert. You'll find me in northern Africa, between Tunisia and Egypt. We're talking about Libya, a country the CIA characterizes as "an authoritarian state."
Libya Unrest
AZUZ: Protesters in Libya have been speaking out against that authoritarian government for more than a week now, and the government has reportedly responded with force. A human rights group says at least 200 people have been killed in violence there. The target of the protests is Libya's leader, Moammar Gadhafi. He's been in power more for more than forty years, as we told you yesterday. Protesters are calling on Gadhafi to step down. But during a speech yesterday, he refused. Colonel Gadhafi actually urged Libyans to go out and demonstrate for him. Ben Wedeman filed this report from one of the areas in Libya where Gadhafi's government is no longer in control.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We were able to go to the city of Tobruk in eastern Libya, where we saw that, despite what Colonel Gadhafi is saying, he is not in control of the eastern part of the country.
There's no army, no police on the streets. The anti-Gadhafi protesters have been able to burn down the police station, burn down party headquarters, burn down the intelligence headquarters. They are in open revolt. Some of the protesters telling us they not only want to overthrow the regime of Moammar Gadhafi, they want to see him killed or put on trial in the international court of The Hague.
We also heard from some people that they have a plan to cut the export of oil from eastern Libya. Eastern Libya is where much of Libya's oil comes from. And this, they say, they will do unless the massacres, as they describe them, committed by the Gadhafi regime are put to an end.
Otherwise, the situation in the heart of the country seems fairly calm. Gas stations are open and some stores are open. Although clearly, people are not going about their normal lives.
One of the big concerns here is that the Libyan Air Force, which has been used against protesters in Tripoli, could be used again in this area to punish the people of eastern Libya for trying to overthrow the regime of Moammar Gadhafi.
I'm Ben Wedeman, CNN, reporting from eastern Libya.
(END VIDEO)
Rallies in Bahrain
AZUZ: "No Shia, no Sunni, only Bahraini." That was the chant from this massive crowd marching through the streets of Bahrain's capital on Tuesday. Shia and Sunni are two of the main sects of Islam. In the Middle Eastern nation of Bahrain, the majority of the population is Shia, while the rulers are Sunni. Protesters there have been calling for change in their country's government. And some are saying that those Sunni rulers need to go. The king of Bahrain has met with some of the leaders of the groups that are against him and his government. And he's been taking steps to reform the country.
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mrs. Sowa's social studies class at Memorial Middle School in Albany, Oregon! Which of these animals is a reptile? You know what to do! Is it: A) Sea turtle, B) Frog, C) Salamander or D) Electric eel? You've got three seconds -- GO! A sea turtle was the only reptile we listed. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Creative for a Cause
AZUZ: Most sea turtles, including the loggerhead species, are endangered. But a group of 8th grade art students got the chance to meet one in person recently. This was part of a class project that started with a field trip and ended with a fundraiser that might help save some of these renowned reptiles. Take a look at this.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
SARAH MURRAY, GEORGIA AQUARIUM BIOLOGIST: They're an intricate part of the chain out there, the wildlife out there. We would just hate to lose this species completely. They're part of the balance, for sure. Without them, then a piece would be missing.
Good morning, guys! Welcome to the Georgia Aquarium!
Loggerhead sea turtles are endangered. Unfortunately, a lot of their habitats are getting destroyed along the beaches where they like to make nests.
KENNETH DAVIS, 8TH GRADER: It was the first time I ever saw a sea turtle in person. When we came there, he was so excited to see us.
QUAHMAYLA BROOKS, 8TH GRADER: Sea turtles are actually not only important, but they are really magnificent to look at the way they are in the water.
KATY KING, DAVIS MIDDLE SCHOOL ART TEACHER: And what are some of the reasons why they are becoming endangered or why they are endangered? Ansley, name one.
ANSLEY, 8TH GRADE STUDENT: Because we keep on destroying their habitat.
SAMANTHA GODWIN, 8TH GRADER: We're gathering sketches of Murphy over here, and we're going to make these little clay models that we are going to sell so that we can raise money to actually adopt some sea turtles.
DAVIS: I really think it's going to help make a difference because, not only for us, maybe other schools will say, "this pretty much is a good idea, we probably should do the same." You don't have to be a certain age to help out sea turtles that are endangered.
KHAYREE ACKLIN, 8TH GRADER: I really didn't think I would be actually doing a project of something that is important to the world.
MURRAY: I think it's awesome. I mean, having 8th graders take such a stance and an initiative to write letters to Congress and to care about these animals, I think it's absolutely great. We need all the help we can get.
KING: I can teach the kids that we are a voice for change, that we can make people aware. And I think that's the purpose of an educator, is to make kids know that.
MURRAY: They should want them for their children, as well. They should want them around for future generations, to come for their great-great-grandchildren.
(END VIDEO)
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go, it might seem a little early to be talking about a presidential race. But don't tell that to these guys. They're not running for the White House. They're campaigning to be one of the racing presidents for Major League Baseball's Washington Nationals. Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln: These monumental mascots are certainly at the head of the class when it comes to presidential pedigree. And after spending a season rounding the bases...
Goodbye
AZUZ: ...they'll be in great shape to make a presidential run. They just better make sure they follow the rules, though, 'cause no one will root for a commander in cheat. Okay, we're gonna strike up another edition of CNN Student News for you tomorrow. Hope you all have a great day. Talk to you then.
