Britain's foremost aviation showcase celebrates its 60th anniversary this year.
The Spitfire is one of the aircraft from Farnborough's inaugural show getting airborne once again to celebrate the airshow's 60th year.
The 46th Farnborough International Airshow will commemorate the first show ever held in 1948 at this year's event in Hampshire which runs from July 14 to 20.
"As we look back on the past 60 years, we also are excited to continue looking forward to the next 60 years," said John Cairns, Head of Services at Farnborough International Limited (FIL) which runs the biennial airshow.
To mark the occasion, Farnborough's world-renowned flying display will include aircraft which flew at the first show like the Swordfish, Spitfire, Sea Hawk and Sea Fury.
Adding a modern twist to the mix will be the debut of The Blades, the world's only globally accredited aerobatic airline.
The airshow was first established as a way for the British public to see and learn about the best of aviation.
Staying true to its original purpose, on both Saturday 19 and Sunday 20 July -- Farnborough's "public weekend" -- there will be a four-and-a-half-hour flying display.
Highlights include perennial favourites the Red Arrows, the Royal Air Force aerobatic team who will close the show with their aerial gymnastics, as well as the debut of the Aero Sekur Shooting Stars, an Italian ladies' parachute team who will be providing daily skydiving displays.
"Farnborough, in essence, has always been about innovation, and I am delighted that to a long line of distinguished 'Farnborough Firsts' I am able to add some very worthy new firsts, including the first ever women's parachute team to appear at the Airshow; the world's first aerobatic airline and the first business aviation jet to have been developed at Farnborough," continued Cairns.
As well as displaying aircraft for the public, Farnborough has also established itself as one of the world's premier showcases for the aviation business world.
This year, 1,500 companies from 35 countries as diverse as Colombia and Bahrain will be exhibiting planes and other technologies in a show that is predicted to be Farnborough's biggest to date.
On the trade days which run from Monday 14 to Friday 18 July, business attendees will be able to see the world's latest aerospace innovations in the air.
A full range of civil, business and defence aircraft will take part in flying displays. These include the Airbus AB380; HAL helicopters; the Kestrel JP10 (originally conceived at Farnborough airfield); the MiG 29; the EADS Eurofighter; the F 16 and F18; the MB 346; the AB 609; MB 311.
In 2006, Farnborough trade week accumulated $42 billion worth of orders including $550 million in business aviation orders. The Airbus A380 also made its UK debut at Farnborough that year.
"Our intention has always been to build on the success of the 2006 event, and to ensure that this year's show delivers an incomparable business service for our exhibitors and their customers, ensuring that they can gain maximum benefit and opportunity from attending Farnborough Airshow -- whether that is taking orders, making sales or developing new business," said Amanda Stainer, the Airshow's Exhibition and Events Director.
To find out more about Farnborough International Airshow go to: www.farnborough.com/
