(CNN)All you need is luck, to misquote one of Liverpool's most famous exports, The Beatles.
But Liverpool's footballers won't mind one bit that a fortunate goal sealed a vital win at Swansea to set up a pivotal clash with Manchester United at the weekend.
One of English soccer's biggest rivalries is renewed on Sunday with vital points at stake in the race for a place in next season's European Champions League.
Jordan Henderson knew little about his winner in Wales, the ball flying in after Jordi Amat's clearance struck him, but it helped make it seven wins out of eight for the Reds.
A sixth consecutive clean sheet away from home pulled it within two points of Manchester United in fourth, with just four points separating Liverpool from Manchester City in second.
"It's a great result," Henderson told Sky Sports. "The first half was disappointing but I felt as though we did better in second half, passed the ball and created a few chances.
"It was a great pass by Daniel, I got a little fortunate with the finish but you've got to be in the right position to score.
"Overall we're delighted with three points and we now look forward to Sunday. We can't wait for it, we are high on confidence and have great momentum but United played well the other day.
"It'll be a tough one but at Anfield we go in confident and hopefully we'll get the result we need."
In a lackluster start, Daniel Sturridge dragged a shot wide of post for Liverpool before England international Adam Lallana fired a fierce half-volley right at Swansea goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski.
From then on Swansea asserted control.
Martin Skrtel had to be alert to clear as Swansea's French striker Bafetimbi Gomis -- starting for the first time since collapsing on the pitch at Tottenham earlier this month -- headed at goal.
Gomis then played a neat one-two with Wayne Routledge before forcing Liverpool goalkeeper Simon Mignolet into a fine low save.
Next to threaten Liverpool's net was Iceland international Gylfi Sigurdsson, whose effort was arrowing for the top corner before Mignolet intervened.
Just before halftime Jonjo Shelvey, a former Liverpool player, went close with a shot from a right wing corner that was deflected wide by Alberto Moreno.
But having had a chance to regroup, Liverpool came out galvanized after the break and were soon on the front foot.
First Fabianski made a brilliant save to keep out Philippe Coutinho's near post effort before the Pole was then in action again to deny Joe Allen.
Though Liverpool were in the ascendency, its opening goal was down to a stroke of luck.
As Henderson galloped onto a through ball Swansea's Spanish defender Amat got there first, but his clearance ricocheted off the Liverpool player and into the net past Fabianski.
From then on Liverpool did a fine job of squeezing the life out of the game and playing on the counter, striker Daniel Sturridge hitting the post late on as Swansea left gaps at the back.
Reading seal Wembley berth
In the FA Cup -- England's premier cup competition -- second tier Reading sealed a trip to Wembley to face Arsenal in the final four after beating Bradford 3-0.
Goals from Hal Robson-Kanu and Garath McCleary inside nine minutes punished third tier Bradford, before Jamie Mackie added a third in the closing stages.
Reading will face Arsenal in April while the other semifinal sees Aston Villa play either Liverpool or Blackburn, who meet in a replay.
