Wayne Rooney has defended himself from criticism by Roberto Mancini following Sunday's Manchester derby, in which the United striker scored two goals but appeared to play a role in City's captain being sent off.
City manager Mancini has officially appealed against Chris Foy's decision to dismiss Kompany in the 12th minute of the 3-2 home defeat that ended his side's English FA Cup title defense at the first hurdle, and blamed Rooney for influencing the referee.
Kompany slid in with two feet to win the ball off United winger Nani, who did not appeal for a foul -- but Rooney ran straight to the official and Foy ruled that it was a dangerous tackle.
"It was not a red card. Rooney told him his decision," Mancini told reporters after the match, before referring to an incident last week when he gesticulated from the touchline to have an opposing player punished.
"When I did this against Liverpool, people told me not to do it. I said I was sorry and made a mistake."
Who are football's top January transfer targets?
Rooney, however, insisted on his Twitter account that he had done no wrong.
"Funny how people think i got kompany sent off. Im not ref. i didn't give red card. But it was a clear red card. 2 footed tackle," he wrote on the social networking website on Monday.
United boss Alex Ferguson agreed with Rooney that Kompany deserved to be sent off.
"I think so, I've seen him do it before -- he maybe got off in the past. I think if he catches Nani then he's got a problem."
Scholes in shock return as Man Utd beat FA Cup holders Man City
City's appeal will be heard ahead of Wednesday's first leg of the English League Cup semifinal against Liverpool.
If it fails, Kompany will miss that home match, the second leg and Premier League games against Wigan and third-placed Tottenham due to it being his second red card this season.
His absence would be a blow to City's hopes of winning a first league title since 1968, with the league leaders already lacking central defensive cover as Kolo Toure is away at the African Cup of Nations along with his brother, key midfielder Yaya.
That could mean a recall for 21-year-old Dedryck Boyata, who is on loan at Premier League strugglers Bolton, or Nedum Onuoha -- who had been expected to leave in the January transfer window as Mancini seeks to free up funds to make new signings.
