(Southern Living) -- Keep up with the kids with fuel from these Walt Disney World restaurants.
La Cantina de San Angel and La Hacienda de San
Epcot World Showcase's Mexico Pavilion
These two eateries opened last year along the World Showcase Lagoon. La Cantina offers quick-service tacos nachos, and empanadas, as well as a variety of frozen margaritas (open for lunch and dinner, $15 and under per person).
La Hacienda offers contemporary Mexican fare such as mixed seafood grill and roasted pork loin and features its own "tequila ambassador" who creates one-of-a-kind margaritas, including a coffee-flavored variety (open for dinner, $15-$36 per person).
SouthernLiving.com: Walt Disney World Vacation planning -- expert tips, tricks and ideas
Via Napoli Ristorante e Pizzeria
Epcot World Showcase's Italy Pavilion
This great Italian restaurant features an open kitchen and three wood-burning pizza ovens named for Italy's three active volcanoes (Mount Etna, Mount Vesuvius and Mount Stromboli). Executive Chef Charlie Restivo is serious about his pizzas, using mozzarella flown in from Italy, water similar to the alkaline water found in Naples and San Marzano tomatoes (open lunch and dinner, $15-$36 per person).
SouthernLiving.com: Must-stop Disney shops
Narcoossee's
Grand Floridian Resort and Spa
This spectacular eatery sits on the edge of the Seven Seas Lagoon and offers beautiful views of the Contemporary Resort and the main entrance to the Magic Kingdom. The restaurant's quiet interior encourages you to slow down, cool off and enjoy some time with your friends and family. The surf-and-turf and pan-seared scallops are incredible, and the children's menu is very kid-friendly (open for lunch and dinner, $15-$36 per person).
The Tusker House
African area of the Animal Kingdom
This restaurant might just take the prize for the best character breakfast at WDW as Donald and Daisy Duck, Mickey and Goofy regularly make appearances at the morning meal. The food is served buffet style, but breakfast features lots of fresh fruit and the vegetarian in the family can get Jollaf rice, spiced tofu or tabbouleh for lunch or dinner (open for breakfast, $15 and under per person, lunch and dinner, $15-$36 per person).
The Captain's Grille
Yacht Club Resort
This is one of the unsung heroes of WDW restaurants. The theme is nautical and the food outstanding. Located next door to the upscale Yachtsman Steakhouse, the Grille offers land and sea options that include bourbon-marinated New York strip steaks and lump crab cakes (open for breakfast, $15 and under per person, lunch and dinner, $15-$36 per person).
SouthernLiving.com: Online guide to Disney
Get the best of the South delivered - recipes, decorating ideas and travel tips. Sign up for our weekly newsletter.
Copyright 2011 Southern Living magazine. All rights reserved.
