The ugly subject of sledging in cricket raised its head again on Thursday as Australia remained on course for a 4-0 series whitewash against the touring India side.
Virat Kohli scored his maiden Test century, but the young India batsman complained bitterly about the comments he received after almost running himself out on 99.
The 23-year-old blamed Ben Hilfenhaus after his ordeal at the end of the 90th over, bowled by five-wicket hero Peter Siddle, which came on Australia's national holiday.
Australia captain Clarke joins illustrious club
"Hilfenhaus said something to me which was totally unnecessary ... out of the blue," Kohli told reporters.
"He wasn't even bowling or doing anything. I survived that run out and he just said something which I can't obviously say in a press conference. I gave it back to him, saying, 'You didn't even have anything to do with it, why would you do that?'"
At the time Kohli, playing in his eighth Test match, was making a defiant stand of 33 runs for the ninth wicket with tailender Ishant Sharma in hot conditions in Adelaide.
"They sledge when they get frustrated. Obviously it was hot out there," he said.
"Constantly they were sledging the players so they could spoil our concentration. During that partnership they were really, really loud."
Kohli also complained about abuse from the crowd -- a single-day record 35,081 for Australia-India matches at the venue -- when he was fielding later.
Australia reached stumps on 50-3 in their second innings, an overall lead of 382 runs after India's first-innings 272.
"It is really, really frustrating at times because they say stuff which shouldn't be said on a cricket field," Kohli said.
"We go out there to play, not to get abused like that. If they've come here to enjoy the game of cricket they should do that, not get drunk and abuse players.
"If the players say anything they're fined and banned, but the crowd can just say anything and go home."
Tensions between the side were stoked before the match started when India batsman Gautam Gambhir criticised Siddle, saying the bowler could only perform his own wickets.
However, his words came back to haunt him as Siddle dismissed the opener for 34 with a rising delivery as he claimed figures of 5-49 and a total of 22 wickets so far in the series.
"Gambhir thought I had the luck of the green wickets but I guess there wasn't much bounce in this wicket today and it seemed to get him out, so it was a nice little reward for a wicket that is hard to bowl on," Siddle said.
He also claimed the scalp of cricket's highest run scorer Sachin Tendulkar, who fell for 25 as his bid to become the first player to score 100 international centuries continues.
Hilfenhaus contributed 3-62, while Kohli top-scored with 116 as he added 114 for the sixth wicket with Wriddhiman Saha, who made 34 standing in for suspended captain and wicketkeeper Mahendra Singh Dhoni.
Spinner Ravichandran Ashwin then took two wickets and veteran fast bowler Zaheer Khan another as the Australian top order collapsed.
Captain Michael Clarke and his predecessor Ricky Ponting, who both made double centuries in Australia's first innings of 604-7 declared, were unbeaten on nine and one respectively at the end of the third day.
Meanwhile, Pakistan took four late wickets to restrict England's hopes of a big first-innings lead in the second Test in Abu Dhabi on Thursday.
Top-ranked England, having dismissed the "home" side for 257, ended the second day on 207-5 as off-spinner Saeed Ajmal continued his fine form.
Ajmal, who took 7-55 as Pakistan won the first test in Dubai by 10 wickets, dismissed opener Alastair Cook (94), Kevin Pietersen (14) and Eoin Morgan (three) in the last 30 minutes.
Abdur Rehman started the collapse when he bowled Jonathan Trott for 74, ending a stand of 139 with Cook.
Pakistan had resumed on 256-7, but seamer Stuart Broad dismissed captain Misbah-ul-Haq (84) to finish with four wickets, and James Anderson took two in four balls in the next over.
The three-match series is being played in the United Arab Emirates as Pakistan cannot host internationals due to past security problems.
