IFA, one of Europe's largest consumer electronics exhibitions kicked off this week in Berlin.
With manufacturing giants such as Samsung, Sony and LG all rumored to be launching new products at the show, CNN asked Stephen Graves, online editor at Stuff magazine, to select five of his favorite gadgets from the exhibition floor.
Sony Xperia Z1
Sony's new flagship smartphone features an amazing 20.7MP camera, plus an even tougher and more water-resistant frame than its predecessor the Xperia Z.
Inside, the Xperia Z1 has a more powerful quad-core processor and a whopping 3000mAh battery -- and with a razor-sharp 5in full HD screen, it's shaping up to be yet another top class Android phone.
Stuff's Will Dunn says: "Although it's not a comprehensive overhaul of Sony's flagship phone, the Xperia Z1 does offer several incremental improvements."
Read more: Xperia Z1 review
Panasonic Toughpad 4K UT-MB5
Panasonic has managed a world first with this 4K-compatible tablet, which features an incredibly sharp 3840 x 2560 pixel screen.
At 20 inches in size, it's around four times bigger than an iPad and manages only two hours of battery life, so portable it isn't -- but this Windows 8-powered beast is certainly something to behold.
Don't expect to spot many in the wild though -- the €4,500 price tag will be hard for even the most ardent early adopter to stomach.
Samsung Galaxy Gear and Galaxy Note 3
Samsung put on a huge press conference to announce a handful of new products, but the Korean giant is clearly banking on them being blockbuster hits.
The Galaxy Note 3 is the third-generation of the Note "phablet" (bigger than a smartphone, smaller than a tablet). With a 1920 x 1080 5.7in screen, eight-core processor, 13MP camera with 3x optical zoom and a swanky stitched leather back panel, it's looking set to be one of the most powerful, versatile mobile devices on the market.
Read more: Galaxy Note 3 review
The Galaxy Gear is something entirely new for Samsung. It's an Android-powered smartwatch that maintains a link to your Samsung Galaxy phone to deliver notifications, control music playback and access apps.
Read more: Samsung Galaxy Gear review
3Doodler
A 3D printer that you hold in your hand like a pen, the Kickstarter-funded 3Doodler is undoubtedly one of the coolest breakout oddities of IFA 2013.
The size of a Cuban cigar, it extrudes hot, quick-setting plastic from its nozzle nib, allowing you to "sketch" out small 3D models in minutes. It's much faster than using a traditional 3D printer -- and doesn't require any software to boot.
Read more: 3Doodler review
For all the latest news from IFA 2013, click here.
