Portugal winger Nani has been ruled out of the 2010 World Cup in South Africa with a collar bone injury.
Nani, who plays for English premier League side Manchester United, suffered the injury in a training session with his national side in Portugal, before leaving for the tournament which begins on June 11.
Nani's injury was not immediately levelheaded by coach Carlos Queiroz, but the Portuguese football association announced that the winger would not be taking part in the World Cup on their official Web site on Monday.
"After daily assessment of the evolution of the injury, including the carrying out of complementary exams, we have concluded that Nani was not able to compete," a statement read.
Nani will be replaced in the squad by Benfica midfielder Ruben Amorin, ahead of Portugal's first match against Ivory Coast in Port Elizabeth on 15 June.
With Nani watching from the stands, Portugal labored to a 3-0 victory Mozambique in their final warm-up game in Johannesburg on Tuesday.
After a goalless first half, Danny collected a pass from Deco to open the scoring in the 51st minute, before striker Hugo Almeida came off the bench to score twice.
Nani is the latest Premier League player to succumb to injury in the build-up to the finals.
Chelsea duo Michael Essien of  Ghana and John Obi Mikel of Nigeria, and Manchester United's England Captain Rio Ferdinand, are also missing the showpiece.
Ivory Coast striker Didier Drogba, who also plays for Premier League champions Chelsea, is a doubt for the tournament after breaking his arm in his team's friendly against Japan on Friday.
Meanwhile, European champions Spain warmed up for South Africa in style with a 6-0 thrashing of Poland.
Winger David Silva and striker David Villa made it 2-0 at half-time before Xabi Alonso added a third early in the second period.
Cesc Fabregas and Fernando Torres both marked their returns from injury by coming off the bench to score and Pedro added a sixth ten minutes before full-time.
But many people's World Cup favorites suffered an injury scare when Barcelona star Andres Iniesta limped off after 39 minutes with a thigh injury.
In other news, Switzerland defender Philippe Senderos has joined Fulham from Arsenal on a three-year contract.
