(CNN)  -- Davis Cup champions Serbia will be without world No. 3 Novak Djokovic as they begin the defense of their title in the men's team competition against India this weekend.
The Australian Open champion led Serbia to an historic victory over France in front of a home crowd in Belgrade in the 2010 final, but has chosen to focus on his preparations for the U.S. hard-court season rather than join his teammates for the March 4-6 first-round world group tie.
However, the 23-year-old insisted that his teammates -- world No. 18 Viktor Troicki, 45th-ranked Janko Tipsarevic and double's specialists Ilija Bozoljac and Nenad Zimonjic -- remain favorites to secure victory on indoor courts in Serbia's second city Novi Sad.
"Unfortunately, this time I won't be part of the Davis Cup team. Together with my teammates and captain, I decided to rest this time but I am confident that they will win this tie and they have my full support," Djokovic said in a statement on his official website.
'100 percent' fit Nadal returns to the fray in Davis Cup tie
"I feel physically well, fit, and mentally motivated to do even more coming up to tournaments in Indian Wells and Miami where I haven't done well in the last years. So I really want to work hard and get some good results in the US," he added.
The Indian team will be made up world No. 93 Somdev Devverman, Rohan Bopanna and doubles specialists Mahesh Bhupathi and Leander Paes -- fresh from their final appearance in Melbourne.
In other top tier Davis Cup ties beginning on Friday, world No. 1 Rafael Nadal is set to make a return to action for the first time since the Australian Open when 2009 champions Spain travel to underdogs Belgium.
World No. 8 Andy Roddick will also make his first appearance in the Davis Cup since 2009 to lead the United States team against Chile, while defending champions France travel to Austria to play in the tournament's most unusual venue -- an airport hangar on the outskirts of Vienna.
Elsewhere, at the WTA Malaysia Open, former world no. 1 Dinara Safina suffered another setback in her bid to get back to the top of the women's game on Thursday as she lost a tight three setter to fifth-seed Lucie Safarova.
The Russian, who has dropped to 113 in the world rankings, took the second set off the Czech world No. 35 before eventually losing 6-3 4-6 6-3 in the second round of the hard court tournament.
Second seed and former Wimbledon finalist Marion Bartoil -- the highest ranked player left in the draw following the shock first round exit of world no. 6 Francesca Schiavone -- progressed to the third round with a 6-2 6-1 win over Ekaterina Ivanova.
There was also a win for fourth seed Jarmila Groth of Australia who defeated Japan's Miskai Doi 7-6 6-3 but third seed Alisa Kleybanova was knocked out by world No. 150 Michaella Krajicek 3-6 6-4 6-3.
