Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho has continued reshaping his squad ahead of the new season by allowing midfielder Guti to leave the Spanish giants, while legendary forward Raul is also set to go.
Guti, who did not feature in Spain's 2010 World Cup squad, will depart the Bernabeu 15 years after making his first-team debut.
The 33-year-old, who joined the club at the age of nine and has won 14 international caps, has been linked with a move to Turkish side Besiktas.
"I always wished to play for Real Madrid and I did my best to stay, refusing very tempting offers to play elsewhere," he told the club's official website on Sunday.
"I am about to begin a new and exciting stage in my career and I wish to enjoy being in a new country to the fullest.
"This has been a beautiful and glorious experience, but these things happen in football all the time. Younger players need to be given way and I feel proud and happy for having played here."
Former Real coach Berndt Schuster is now in charge of Besiktas, and Guti confirmed that he may be reunited with the German.
"I have an offer from Besiktas, but I haven't decided yet," he said. "What is for sure is that wherever I go, I will give everything."
Guti won three Champions League titles and five Spanish La Liga crowns with Real, playing 542 matches in the white shirt of "Los Merengues."
"I leave knowing Real Madrid will always be my home. Part of my heart stays here today. I would like to return after retiring as a player," he said.
Guti's departure will be followed by that of the club's all-time leading scorer Raul, who is expected to join Schalke according to recent quotes from the German side's manager Felix Magath.
The UK Press Association reported that the 33-year-old will hold a farewell press conference on Monday.
British media claimed on Sunday that Mourinho is still trying to sign Liverpool midfielder Steven Gerrard and his England teammate, Chelsea defender Ashley Cole.
Portugal defender Ricardo Carvalho has also expressed his interest in rejoining his former Chelsea and Porto boss in Madrid.
"I would go there right now, swimming or running," he told Spanish newspaper AS.
Mourinho has already brought in Argentina winger Angel Di Maria from Benfica and young midfielder Sergio Canales from Racing Santander.
