Manchester United have qualified for the last 16 of the Champions League as Group C winners, despite being held 1-1 at home to Valencia on Tuesday.
United went into the match on the verge of creating history. No side had ever gone through all six group games without conceding a goal -- but a clean sheet against their Spanish visitors would have seen the Premier League giants achieve that feat.
However, that dream died in the 32nd minute when Michael Carrick lost the ball to Alejandro Dominguez -- who perfectly teed up Pablo Hernandez to give Valencia the lead.
With both teams already qualifying for the knockout stages, a Valencia win would have seen them go through as group winners.
And they remained on course for the three points until the 63rd minute when  Anderson scored a rare goal to earn United a draw, the Brazilian midfielder reacting quickest after Park Ji-sung's shot was parried by goalkeeper Vicente Guaita.
Scottish champions Glasgow Rangers finished third in the group -- and take the Europa League place in the process -- after drawing 1-1 at Bursaspor.
Top scorer Kenny Miller opened the scoring for the visitors in the 19th minute when he superbly lashed home a left-footed shot from 12 yards out.
But the Turkish hosts collected their first-ever Champions League point when Sercan Yildirim stabbed the ball past goalkeeper Allan McGregor with 11 minutes left.
Defending champions Inter Milan had already qualified for the knockout stages, but their run of poor form continued as they were thrashed 3-0 at Werder Bremen in Group A.
A Sebastian Proedl header and a Marko Arnautovic volley sealed the points for the Bundesliga side, with Claudio Pizarro adding the third near the end.
A victory would have seen Rafael Benitez's side go through as group winners, but their heaviest defeat in Europe for five years allowed Tottenham to win the group on 11 points after a thrilling 3-3 draw at FC Twente.
An end-to-end encounter saw Spurs go ahead when 40-year-old goalkeeper Sander Boschker completely missed a Peter Wisgerhof backpass, allowing the ball to dribble into the net.
The home side levelled with a twice-taken Denny Landzaat penalty, but Jermain Defoe put the London side ahead early in the second half from close range.
A Roberto Rosales header brought Twente on level terms again, but another Defoe goal looked to have sealed the points for Tottenham. However, a superb Nacer Chadli free-kick ensured the match finished all-square.
The result meant that Twente qualified for the Europa League in third place but Werder Bremen go out of Europe altogether despite beating Inter.
Tournament favorites Barcelona ended their Group D campaign with another victory, as a second-string side eased to a 2-0 home win over Rubin Kazan.
Andreu Fontas put Barca ahead with a deflected effort and Victor Vazquez sealed the win eight minutes from time.
The result means Barca finish top of the group with 14 points, while Russian side Rubin finished third to reach the Europa League.
That result ensured FC Copenhagen went through in second place regardless of the outcome of their match against Panathinakos, but the Danish side went through in style -- winning 3-1 to become the first team from their nation to reach the last 16 stage.
A Martin Vingard strike, a Jesper Gronkjaer penalty and a Djibril Cisse own goal secured the victory, with Cedric Kante grabbing a consolation goal for the Greek side, who finished bottom of the group to go out of Europe.
German Bundesliga strugglers Schalke have saved their best form for Europe this season and they finished top of Group B after a 2-1 success at Benfica, who will now go into the Europa League.
Lyon have qualified in second place, but the French side needed a late Alexandre Lacazette goal to earn a 2-2 home draw with Hapoel Tev Aviv.
The Israeli side would have finished third but for conceding two minutes from time, a goal which means their European adventure is over for this season.
