Iggy Azalea would love it if everyone channeled "Frozen" and just "let it go."
The Australian rapper has broken her silence about a supposed feud between herself and Nicki Minaj, rumors that were sparked after Minaj gave a curiously pointed acceptance speech at the BET Awards on Sunday.
The New York-bred MC made it clear that when "you hear Nicki Minaj spit, Nicki Minaj wrote it," leaving observers to assume that she was taking a dig at Azalea, who's been rumored to work with ghostwriters and was Minaj's competitor at the awards ceremony.
Nicki Minaj vs. Iggy Azalea: Where's the beef?
Although Minaj said during her acceptance speech that she wasn't giving "shade" -- aka, disrespect -- it nonetheless appeared that way to many.
With the Internet chomping down on the apparent beef, both Minaj and Azalea have tried to clear the air.
"The media puts words in my mouth all the time and this is no different. I will always take a stance on women writing b/c I believe in us!" Minaj tweeted on July 2. "I've congratulated Iggy on the success of 'Fancy,' publicly. She should be very proud of that. All the women nominated should b proud. ... That will never change my desire to motivate women to write. Our voices have to be heard. I hope I inspire up & coming females to do that."
Azalea initially remained silent on the subject, but by July 3 the rapper had grown tired of the commentary.
"I have to say the general explosion of pettiness online in the last few days is hard to ignore and honestly ... lame," Azalea wrote in a statement, as captured on her Instagram account. "If I had won the BET award that would've been great but it wasn't my year and I don't mind -- so you shouldn't either."
And that's not all: "Generally speaking," Azalea continued, "I'm unbothered by anything that 'happened' at the BET awards, and just feel worn out by everyone trying to make me have wars with people all the time. Anyone who wishes me well is welcome in my life and those who don't can't get any more of my time. I hate to see everyone exhausting themselves on my behalf over things that I'm still not sure even exist and don't matter. Just let it go."
