"At this time, we need a leader." "I would try to stop the war in Iraq because I think they should have a talk with them, not a big war."
Trevor Dougherty is too young to vote, but is doing everything he can to make sure others do.
"I'd probably go for the drilling in Alaska. Nuclear power, I'd keep that in mind."
These Americans sounding off on the issues and the 2008 presidential election have a lot to say, but they won't be saying it at the ballot box -- they're all too young to vote. In fact, most won't be voting for quite a few years.
But that doesn't mean that they have no interest in the race for the White House between Sens. Barack Obama and John McCain. As evidenced in videos posted at iReport.com, they care a great deal.
Several of these videos were put together by school classes, like Matt MacFarlane's 7th and 8th graders at Templeton Middle School in Templeton, California, who made a short video on the importance of voting.
The students called for a "person with integrity who knows right from wrong", "a person of vision who not only knows what is but also what can be," "a person with a moral compass to help [set] a course for our nation," and "a person who has the ability to unite and inspire us as we face challenging times."
MacFarlane's students urged voters to consider their decisions carefully on November 4. "What's at stake in this election?" asked one student. "Everything. We're counting on you." iReport.com: Watch the full video from Mr. MacFarlane's class
Some children took to portraying the candidates, complete with clothes and wigs, like the students of Cabot Middle School in Cabot, Arkansas.
All of the presidential and vice presidential "candidates" gave speeches, with Secret Service, prospective first ladies and family members in tow. Most members of Gov. Sarah Palin's family were present, including a baby doll portraying Trig.
This video was just a part of their learning experience about presidential elections. Library media specialist Jill Weir, who submitted the video to iReport.com, said that the students also participated in mock-campaigning, voter registrations, precincts and exit polling. iReport.com: The 'candidates' speak
A church youth group in Winter Haven, Florida, took a more humorous approach, putting together campaign ads from "John McHinkle" and "Barack Yo Mama," featuring cameos from "Sarah Mailin'" and "Joe Hidin'".
It was still a learning experience, though, said Pastor James Blewett, who posted two videos to iReport.com  in which the pretend candidates teach lessons about dating and parental conflicts. iReport.com: Watch the campaign ad spoofs
Some iReporters decided to ask children directly what they thought about the election.
"I have a 6-year-old and he watches the debates with me," Vijay Sureshkumar of Seattle, Washington, said. "He's interested in what's going on and that's what triggered me. Why don't I go around the neighborhood and ask the kids?"
The responses he got were both funny and thought-provoking. Some children saw the war as a major issue, one wanted more funding for education, and another said he was in favor of drilling for oil in Alaska.
Some children seemed to be in favor of Obama, some for McCain, at least one liked both, and two of them started yelling at each other over which candidate was better.
When asked about the candidates' families, one boy could easily name Obama's wife and daughters' names. When asked about McCain, he was a little fuzzier. "He's been around for a long time. Like he's been around, [since] like 1966."  iReport.com: Kids sound off on the election
Tony Stampalia of Utica, New York, had a similar idea, asking students in an elementary school class whom they would vote for, based purely on the pictures of the candidates. Stampalia said that it was a tie between McCain and Obama, with one child for Ralph Nader.
Obama "voters" in the class voted for their candidate because "he has a cool suit," "because he has the hair," "because he has a nice smile." One Obama voter mistook him for President Bush, while another wore an Obama button but said she was supporting Sen. Hillary Clinton.
McCain "voters" in the class liked his blue shirt and tie, and thought he was "cute." One liked his "white hair." Another one found that McCain "made people do good stuff," but admitted that Obama did the same.
All the children seemed to agree that "your vote counts." iReport.com: Children pick their favorite candidate
Of course, this is not quite the first election in which children were asked about their choice for president.
The Scholastic Election Poll has been doing that for at least 68 years. Poll takers said their poll has reflected the outcome of the actual election all but twice since 1940.  A quarter of a million students participated in the poll.  This year, Obama won with 57 percent to McCain's 39 percent.
In many videos on iReport.com, children and teenagers speak out for their candidate of choice. In one case, a 4th grader named Liam Coakley of Long Beach, California went the extra mile by setting up a lemonade stand for Obama. iReport.com: Lemonade stand for Obama
Trisha Prabhu, 8, of Naperville, Illinois, was so excited about Obama's candidacy that she told her mother Bhanu to make a video of her giving reasons to vote for him. iReport.com: Watch Prabhu's video
Trevor Dougherty of Ithaca, New York, said in a video: "I'm 16 years old and in this presidential election, I cannot vote. That's why I'm begging you this November, if you can, to get out this November and vote."
Trevor has been following the election very closely, and first submitted an iReport while en route to the Democratic National Convention.
As part of the "Voter Vlog Tag" movement, Dougherty went out and registered voters in his hometown, then submitted the video evidence to iReport.com.
"Getting other people registered is a way to express myself and allow other people to be heard. iReport has helped me do all of this." iReport.com: Watch Dougherty register people to vote
Dougherty has iReported about many aspects of this campaign: the conventions, the debates and everything in between. He also rallied together a dozen members of the iReport community to speak about the importance of voting. iReport.com: Dougherty, iReporters urge others to vote
Although these young people aren't able to vote, the decisions made by the next president could certainly affect them.
