Uruguay's controversial World Cup star Luis Suarez has been given a seven-match suspension after being found guilty of biting an opposition player in a Dutch league match.
The striker will miss six Eredivisie games as well as a Dutch Cup tie, ruling him out until his club Ajax's next league match at home to De Graafschap on February 4.
The Amsterdam side's captain was punished by the Royal Netherlands Football Association following an incident in Sunday's 0-0 draw with PSV Eindhoven.
The 23-year-old -- who was infamously sent off during the World Cup quarterfinal against Ghana in July after saving a goal-bound attempt with his hands -- was investigated after biting PSV player Otman Bakkal.
"Ajax and Luis Suarez have accepted the KNVB's settlement proposal of a seven-match suspension," said a statement on the club's website on Wednesday.
Ajax had already fined Suarez and banned him for the club's next two domestic matches.
"The fine will go towards a charitable cause," Ajax said.
Suarez, who played in Ajax's 4-0 defeat by Real Madrid on Tuesday night, will be available for the final Champions League Group G match at AC Milan on December 8.
He was named the 2010 Dutch footballer of the year after scoring 49 goals in all competitions last season, and has now netted more than 100 times for Ajax since joining the club in 2007.
Meanwhile, European football's ruling body UEFA will look at the red cards incurred by Real's Sergio Ramos and Xabi Alonso late in the Amsterdam match, the UK Press Association reported on Wednesday.
Both players received second yellow cards for time-wasting late in the match, meaning they will miss the final group game against French club Auxerre.
The Spanish club have already earned a place in the second round, and the duo's disciplinary is effectively wiped clean ahead of the two-legged last-16 tie in February and March.
PA reported that if the players were ruled to have been purposefully booked, they could be charged and have their suspensions extended.
Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho denied that he had given such instructions to the duo.
"I spoke with many players throughout the game, not only with Ramos and Alonso," he told reporters. "The two red cards were the result of strange referee bookings in an easy game to monitor.
"I didn't like them one bit, but if Ramos or Alonso can't face Auxerre, others will take their place. We will not give our game against the French away. We want to win all our matches."
