(The Frisky) -- When I first heard that a show was premiering on MTV called "World of Jenks," I assumed that it would A) be about a group of guys who like to punch each other in the privates à la "Jackass" or B) star a stuffed monkey à la "Warren the Ape." Luckily, neither is the case. Instead, "World of Jenks" is something MTV, despite its usual flash and pop, is really amazing at creating: documentary television.
So who is Jenks?
The Frisky: James Franco would tell you if he was gay
Andrew Jenks is a 24-year-old documentary filmmaker who first got attention when he was a sophomore at NYU for his film "Andrew Jenks, Room 335." In his movie, Jenks moves into a retirement community. The New York Post raved at the time, 'It's almost impossible to believe that a kid could produce a documentary like this. It's a gorgeous, hilarious, sad, wonderful, unblinking look at the joy of life -- even at the end of it."
The Frisky: Book claims Lady Gaga had eating disorder, affair
Next, Jenks made a movie called "The Zen of Bobby V," about the Mets former manager Bobby Valentine who's moved on to managing baseball in Japan, for ESPN Films.
In each episode of the new "World of Jenks" on MTV, Jenks will spend a week with a person who lives a unique life -- be it a homeless woman, an NFL cheerleader, rapper Maino, a mixed martial artist, an army recruit, or a teen with autism. And I'm not just excited about the show because Jenks is adorable in that floppy-haired, long-nosed Andy Samberg/Daniel Vosovic of "Project Runway" way.
The Frisky: Plus-size actress Gabby Sidibe gets cover of "Elle" magazine
As a journalist who reads 98 percent non-fiction, fascinating people and hidden subcultures always intrigue me. Especially when they're reported on in an honest, sympathetic way. Which Jenks can obviously do. He says about his new show, "Every episode is about really trying to understand that person's entire story. Once you are really with someone the entire time for a few days, you start to really get who they are." Amen to that.
MTV documentary shows are generally outstanding. "True Life" is one of the most underrated series on TV, and I'm happy that "Teen Mom" is finally attracting a lot of attention-and a zillion tabloid covers. Here's hoping "World of Jenks" will be equally engaging in that tradition.
The Frisky: 12 celebs who deny getting breast implants despite radical pics
TM & © 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
