(CNN Student News) -- October 11, 2013
On the International Day of the Girl, CNN Student News discusses this year's educational theme. We also report on a proposal to temporarily raise the U.S. debt ceiling, and we explore the largest ship in the world. Plus, we introduce this year's top 10 CNN Heroes.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Can media coverage have an impact on charities and the people they serve? What might be the pros and cons of this coverage?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. Who appears on the new U.S. $100 bill?
2. What city is hosting the Winter Olympics next year?
3. Jack Lew leads what department in the U.S. government?
4. In what African country did U.S. forces recently capture one of the FBI's most wanted terrorists?
5. Which of these U.S. states is part of Tornado Alley: West Virginia, Nebraska or Nevada?
6. The U.S. announced the suspension of some military aid to what North African nation, due to unrest there?
7. In what country would you find the world's busiest port?
8. What bacteria recently caused an outbreak of foodborne illness linked to raw poultry?
9. What U.S. president also served on the Supreme Court?
10. During what war was the U.S. "debt ceiling" created to monitor government spending?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Washington, D.C.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
