FC Basel will take a 1-0 lead over Bayern Munich into the second leg of their Champions League last 16 tie after a late winner from substitute Valentin Stocker earned victory on Wednesday, when 2010 title winners Inter Milan also conceded a last-gasp goal to lose in Marseille.
Bayern, the runners-up two seasons ago and four-time European champions, will still be hoping to make the final of the continent's top club competition, which will be held at the German side's home Allianz Stadium on May 19.
But with only three wins in seven games since Christmas, and a run of 240 minutes without a goal, Jupp Heynckes' team will need to improve in the home leg on March 13.
"We only seem to win when we take the lead in the first half. If we don't, it turns out like tonight. It's just not happening for us at the moment," said goalkeeper Manuel Neuer.
Stocker struck in the 86th minute to stun the Bavarian giants, giving the Swiss side a precious advantage.
Bayern might have been on the score sheet early at the St. Jakob Stadium, but home goalkeeper Yann Sommer twice denied Franck Ribery in a frantic opening.
But Basel, who had accounted for English powerhouses Manchester United in the group stages, also went close to a breakthrough.
Blog: Should Man City accept Tevez apology?
Defender Aleksandar Dragovic forced Neuer into a reflex save and Alexander Frei rattled the crossbar from close range.
Sommer continued his excellent night as he kept out a curling shot from David Alaba on the half-hour mark.
Basel captain Marco Streller wasted a good chance just after the break when he headed straight at Neuer, but it was Bayern who gained the upper hand and appeared to be headed for at least a draw.
Then with four minutes left, Cameroon striker Jacques Zoua picked out Stocker, who had been left clear by poor Bayern defending, and he shot underneath Neuer.
Serie A giants Inter must have also thought they were heading for a goalless draw at the Stade Velodrome until Ghana's Andre Ayew popped up to head home for Marseille in the 93rd minute.
It was the seventh game without a win for the Italians under Claudio Ranieri, who was left to rue his side's luck.
"We played a good match, in which we created more chances than them, and we didn't deserve to leave beaten," the Inter manager told the match broadcaster.
