Alex Trebek, longtime host of the television quiz show "Jeopardy," was injured while chasing a burglar out of his hotel room early Tuesday.
The 71-year-old TV personality revealed his condition at the National Geographic World Championship in San Francisco.  Footage shot by CNN affiliate KGO showed Trebek taking the long way to the stage, hobbling on crutches up the disabled-access ramp. He placed his crutches to one side and hopped over to the podium, where he told his story with the dry wit "Jeopardy" fans have come to love.
"I deal with answers and questions," Trebek told the crowd.  "And today I'm going to start with the answer to a question I suspect is on many of your minds right now.  The answer is 'At 2:30 yesterday morning, chasing a burglar down the hall ... until my Achilles tendon ruptured and I fell in an ignominious heap, bruising my other leg in the process."
Trebek did not address the injury again except to say that he was fine and expected surgery to take place Friday.  But when reached for comment, a communications director for the show confirmed the incident.
"It's true!" said Phil Zimmerman, a spokesman for "Jeopardy" at Sony.  "Alex is fine and all the details in this story are  true.  Alex isn't going to be making any official statement or commenting any further than what he said at the National Geographic World Championship this morning."
But the San Francisco Police Department revealed details of the case and the subsequent arrest in response to inquiries from CNN.
The police report does not identify Trebek or his wife, who was also in the room, by name.  It does say that movement in the hotel room awoke one of the victims, who gave chase as a suspect left with stolen personal items.  The other victim notified hotel security, who were able to detain the suspect.  She was identified by both victims as the person in the hotel room.
The suspect was arrested by police, and identified as 56-year-old Lucinda Moyers.
She has been charged with burglary and receiving stolen property.
