(CNN Student News) -- March 13, 2014
Covered this Thursday: An explosion levels two buildings in New York City, crowdsourcing plays a role in the search for a missing passenger plane, and we explain the importance of a flight data recorder. And as part of our Women's History Month coverage, we'll introduce you to a CNN Hero who's helping young women thrive.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What might be some benefits and drawbacks of using crowdsourcing to gather information?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. satellite image
2. crowdsourcing
3. voice and flight data recorder
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. According to the video, what may have been the cause of an explosion that destroyed two buildings in New York City on Wednesday morning? What evidence suggests that this may be the cause? How do people know when there is a gas leak? What should you do if you think you smell gas?
2. What confusing information exists surrounding the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? What is crowdsourcing? What are some examples of the use of crowdsourcing? How is crowdsourcing being used in the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? Why has the search area expanded? How does this expansion complicate the search?
3. What kind of information is stored on a plane's voice and flight data recorder? How is the box located after an accident? What makes this piece of equipment so unique?
4. Who is Keren Taylor? How is she helping teens who are facing tough challenges?
Discussion Questions:
1. How is natural gas often used as a power source? What do you think are some advantages to its use compared to other sources of power? What might be some of its disadvantages?
2. What would you classify as "facts we know" about the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? Based on what you have seen in news coverage, what do you think happened to this flight? Explain.
3. Do you think that being a teenager is stressful? Explain. What do you do to relieve stress in your life? How might forms of creative expression, like writing, music and art, help people to address personal challenges and alleviate stress?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
