The U.S. will come face to face with the man who helped inspire the "Miracle of Medinah" once more when it faces Europe at the 2014 Ryder Cup at Gleneagles.
Ian Poulter, the man known as "Mr Ryder Cup" will be part of the European side after securing a wildcard pick from captain Paul McGinley.
Poulter is joined by Scotsman Stephen Gallacher and England's Lee Westwood -- but there is no room for former World No.1 Luke Donald.
Poulter, 38, won all four of his matches two years ago as Europe came back from the brink to record an astonishing 14½ - 13½ victory.
Westwood, who made his Ryder Cup debut in 1997, has won 21 points in 37 matches and has appeared in eight editions of the competition.
Gallacher, who will be playing in front of his home crowd, finished third at the Italian Open and only just missed out on automatic qualification.
McGinley, the European captain, told a news conference that omitting Donald, who boasts an impressive Ryder Cup record, was one of his most difficult tasks.
"It was a very difficult conversation with him for a number of reasons," McGinley told reporters ahead of the match getting under way on September 26.
"My relationship with Luke is very close. He has played in every Ryder Cup I've been involved in apart from 2008 which we both missed.
"I've partnered Luke twice in 2004 and 2006 and vice-captained him in 2010 and 12. I forged a very strong relationship with him.
"His Ryder Cup record is outstanding and he will no doubt go on to make many more appearances in the Ryder Cup.
"It was a difficult call but one I had to do in the interests of the European team."
Europe will be led by Rory McIlroy, the World No.1, while it also boasts four of the top players on the planet.
Sweden's Henrik Stenson is joined by Spain's Sergio Garcia and England's Justin Rose, while there are also places for Thomas Bjorn, Martin Kaymer and Graeme McDowell.
McGinley's team will also have two men making their debuts at the competition with Victor Dubuisson of France and Welshman Jamie Donaldson both having qualified.
