John McCain says he is "most likely" running for re-election in 2016, but is aware that he will be a top target for conservative groups gunning for establishment Republicans in primaries.
In an interview with CNN, the Arizona senator stepped closer to pulling the trigger on a campaign for a sixth term and seems to be spoiling for the fight. But he also said he's not sure Republicans can hang on to the Senate in two years after grabbing it back from Democrats in the midterm elections.
"I am approaching it, that decision, and it's most likely that I will announce that I am a running again," said McCain, who will be 80 at the time of the 2016 election.
McCain had previously said he was considering and "leaning towards" a campaign but would announce his intentions in early 2015.
The veteran senator is about to get his firmest grip on power in Washington since his defeat to President Barack Obama in the 2008 election. He will serve as chairman of the influential Senate Armed Services Committee when Republicans take the majority in January.
But McCain said he would run the committee on the assumption that he will be chairman for only two years, because the Republican majority's fate will also be decided in 2016.
"It is certainly not clear whether we keep the Senate or not," he said. "That will depend on how we can show the American people with a Republican majority that we can govern or not."
McCain knows that tea party and other activists are already lining him up and could seek to exploit positions on immigration and torture that have put him at odds with the conservative base.
"I will be at the top of the list, there is no doubt about that," said McCain. "I expect a vigorous campaign. For me to expect anything else would be foolish. And I'm not foolish."
In his last election, in 2010, McCain fought off a vocal primary challenge from conservative former House Republican and radio host J.D. Hayworth. Since then, a number of Tea Party-backed candidates have made a practice of challenging longtime lawmakers and candidates favored by the party establishment in primaries.
