Ferrari president Luca di Montezemolo has refused to be drawn over speculation on the future of Felipe Massa at the legendary Formula One marque.
While Ferrari driver Fernando Alonso leads the standings after six races with 73 points, his Brazilian teammate Massa, whose contract with the Italian team runs until the end of 2012, is back in 14th place having picked up just 10 points this season.
Massa has struggled for form after fracturing his skull during qualifying at the Hungary Grand Prix in 2009.
"In this moment my concentration is everywhere except the drivers," Di Montezemolo told CNN in answer to a question whether Ferrari were looking at new drivers. "It's too early in the season and we will see after that."
Alonso: F1 runs risk of losing credibility
However the Ferrari chief did make a point of praising Massa's performance at the Monaco Grand Prix when the Brazilian finished sixth.
"I'm pleased to see Felipe Massa did a very good race weekend in Monte Carlo," said di Montezemolo. "Because the more the car has improved, the less difficult it is to drive and good for Felipe. I count on him to take off points for Fernando's competitors."
By way of contrast the Ferrari president was fulsome in his praise of Alonso.
"I think I have the best driver in the world that is Alonso, said Di Montezemolo. "Alonso, particularly in the races has been fantastic and I like his attitude to work very closely with the team as Michael Schumacher was able to do.
"Alonso is a driver with attention to the details but most of all what I like about him is that he is always positive - even in the difficult moments he is always positive. This is very important for the psychological attitude and psychological reaction of the team, this is what I like the most."
The scenario of the Scuderia leading the drivers' standings after six races seemed unlikely at the start of this season, when Alonso and his Italian team publicly doubted the race pace of the two Ferraris.
"Now we are in the lead of the championship, it's only up to us to win the championship," added di Montezemolo.
"So each of us has to look at the pole position of our jobs, to be perfect, to improve, to look inside ourselves what we can do to improve because in a competition in which you can win or lose for half of a tenth of a second - you have to perfect, in the start and in the pit stop."
