(CNN)  -- German champions Bayern Munich will go into Saturday's Champions League Final in Madrid with an economic advantage of almost €100 million ($124 million) over their Italian opponents Inter Milan, according to a leading sports business consultancy.
In terms of success on the field this season, there is little to choose between the giants of Germany and Italy who are both seeking to add European glory to domestic dominance, having both clinched league-and-cup doubles in their home countries.
But in terms of earnings power, Bayern are already clear winners with an annual turnover of €289.5 million ($358 million), says SPORT+MARKT Executive Director Hartmut Zastrow. By contrast, Inter's annual turnover comes to just €196.5 million.
Bayern's advantage derives from additional income derived from commercial and marketing opportunities, with 54 percent of their total turnover -- €160 million -- gained commercially, according to SPORT+MARKT.
Can Mourinho beat Van Gaal to become king of Europe?
By contrast, Inter remain heavily dependent on revenue earned from television rights, with the club collecting €115.7 million -- or 60 percent of its turnover -- in broadcasting income. Bayern's current TV earnings amount to just €69.6 million per a year.
"The Commercial Masters defy the Giants of TV rights. In terms of revenue, Bayern has already defeated Inter Milan: thanks to a great commercial strategy, the Bavarians have been able to earn almost €100 million more than their Italian rivals" said Zastrow.
The Bavarian side also outguns Inter when it comes to ticket sales and matchday revenue, despite having a stadium with more than 10,000 fewer seats than Milan's San Siro home.
Bayern has sold out the 69,000-capacity Allianz Arena for every game since the stadium opened in 2006, bringing in more than €60 million a year.
Inter's ageing Stadio Giuseppe Meazza, last renovated for the 1990 World Cup, holds more than 80,000 but the Serie A champions have averaged just 55,000 this season, bringing in less than €30 million annually.
"The revenue from the stadium ticketing is impressive for Bayern and represents 22 percent of the total, almost equal to broadcasting income", said Zastrow.
"Bayern's figures are a dream for every club. Of course, a new stadium for Inter Milan would help reduce the gap and bring more fans to the matches, generating more cash for the club."
Both clubs have already earned euros 22.5 million by reaching Saturday's final at the Bernabeu with the winners set to collect an additional euros 9 million.
Bayern were placed fifth, behind Manchester United, Real Madrid, Arsenal and Barcelona on last month's latest list of football's richest clubs, compiled by Forbe's magazine.
Man United named world's richest club
Inter were 10th on the list, lower than Italian rivals AC Milan and Juventus. English clubs Liverpool and Chelsea made up the top 10.
