(Budget Travel) -- Many Americans don't realize that there's a world of reliable hotel chains beyond Marriott and Motel 6. Here are 39 chains worth a stay.
The Taj View Hotel, in Agra, India, is one of 77 mostly high-end hotels with Western-style amenities.
The sample rates are for a double room on a weekday in September.
WORLDWIDE
Barceló Hotels & Resorts
Properties: 129 properties, in 14 countries, that include the moderately priced Barceló Comfort hotels and the more stylish Barceló brand. Based in Spain. Sample rate: $161, at Barceló Valencia. barcelo.es
Domina Hotels & Resorts
Properties: 11 hotels in Europe and North Africa, often with locally influenced decor, on-demand movies, and concierges. Based in Italy. Sample rate: $136, at the Domina Inn Fiesta in Budapest. dominahotels.com
Etap Hotel
Properties: 370 low-budget locations in 11 countries. Standard rooms contain a double bed, a bunk and a bathroom. Based in France. Sample rate: $59, at the Etap Hotel Nice Palais Nikaïa in France. etaphotel.com
Husa Hoteles
Properties: More than 160 properties that run the gamut from remote resorts to inexpensive city hotels, in countries like Spain, Belgium, France, Argentina and Egypt. Based in Spain. Sample rate: $88, at the Husa Arcipreste de Hita in Madrid. husa.es
Iberostar Hotels & Resorts
Properties: 100 properties, most located beachside with swimming pools and large gardens, in Europe, South America, the Caribbean and North Africa. Based in Spain. Sample rate: $248, at the Iberostar Playa de Muro in Majorca. iberostar.com
Ibis Hotels
Properties: 800 mid-level hotels, with 24/7 reception and other services, in 38 countries. Based in France. Sample rate: $94, at the Ibis Warszawa Centrum in Poland. ibishotel.com
Mercure
Properties: 762 properties that are spread around the world (52 countries) and vary widely -- some are stylish and chic, while others are more motel-like. Based in France. Sample rate: $145, at Mercure Sydney. mercure.com
Novotel
Properties: 397 large hotels with restaurants and lounges, in 54 countries. Based in France. Sample rate: $79, at the Novotel Xin Qiao Beijing in China. novotel.com
Pestana Hotels & Resorts
Properties: 38 properties that include beachfront high-rises and spa resorts, with a variety of room sizes and styles -- many equipped with kitchens -- in Portugal, Brazil, Mozambique, South Africa, Cape Verde, and São Tomé and Principe. Based in Portugal. Sample rate: $94, at the Pestana Atalaia, in Madeira, Portugal. pestana.com
Riu Hotels & Resorts
Properties: 105 locations, many all-inclusive, in resort areas of North Africa, Mexico, the Caribbean and Europe. Based in Spain. Sample rate: $179 per person (all-inclusive), at the Hotel Riu Palace Cabo San Lucas. riu.com
Sol Meliã
Properties: 318 properties in 30 countries operating under six brands that include Sol Hotels, which are typically near a beach and have kid-friendly restaurants; Tryp Hotels, which also target families but are more likely to be in cities; and the new boutique-style ME by Meliã. Based in Spain. Sample rate: $64, at Tryp Burlada in Pamplona, Spain. solmelia.com
Taj Hotels Resorts and Palaces
Properties: 77 mostly high-end hotels with Western-style amenities in India, as well as in other parts of Asia, the U.K., the U.S., Africa, the Middle East and Australia. Based in India. Sample rate: $90, at the Taj View Hotel, in Agra, India. tajhotels.com
ASIA & THE PACIFIC
Amari Hotels and Resorts
Properties: 15 hotels in Thai beach-resort areas and major cities. Sample rate: $62, at the Amari Coral Beach Resort and Spa in Phuket. amari.com
APA Hotel
Properties: 52 high-rise hotels in Japan (APA stands for Always Pleasant Amenity). Sample rate: $61, at Tokyo-Ojima. apahotel.com
Dusit Hotels & Resorts
Properties: 18 properties with gourmet restaurants (some with poolside chalets) in Thailand, the Philippines, Myanmar and the United Arab Emirates. Based in Thailand. Sample rate: $110, at the D2hotel Chiang Mai in Thailand. dusit.com
Evergreen International Hotels
Properties: Nine sleek, modern hotels (five in Taiwan) with soundproof rooms, plasma TVs and marble bathrooms. Based in Taiwan. Sample rate: $146, at the Evergreen Laurel Hotel Taipei. evergreen-hotels.com
Ginger Hotels
Properties: Eight locations in India with self-serve check-in, well-equipped gyms, and flat-screen TVs. Sample rate: $45, at Ginger Bangalore. gingerhotels.com
Jin Jiang Hotels
Properties: 192 properties in China, ranging from high-end Jin Jiang Hotels to budget-priced Jin Jiang Inns. Sample rate: $138, at the Jin Jiang Hotel Shanghai. jinjianghotels.com
EUROPE
Cab Inn
Properties: Five cheery, efficiently designed hotels in Denmark -- small, simple rooms modeled on cruise ship cabins (hence the name). Some rooms have bunk beds. Sample rate: $118, at the Copenhagen Cab Inn City. cabinn.com
Dedeman Hotels & Resorts International
Properties: 17 locations that tend to be either chic and modern (in big cities) or traditional (in resort areas), primarily in Turkey, northern Cyprus, Eastern Europe and Uzbekistan. Based in Turkey. Sample rate: $130, at the Hotel Dedeman Istanbul. dedemanhotels.com
Fosshótel
Properties: 13 unexciting, moderately priced hotels and guesthouses in normally expensive Iceland. Sample rate: $113, at the Flóki Inn in Reykjavík. fosshotel.is
Grecotel
Properties: 20 luxury properties with spas, infinity pools and other high-end amenities in the resort areas of Greece. Sample rate: $300, at the Grecotel Eva Palace in Corfu. grecotel.com
InterCityHotel
Properties: 28 mid-level hotels in Germany and Austria, often located near train stations and airports. Based in Germany. Sample rate: $170, at the InterCityHotel Berlin. intercityhotel.com
JJW Hotels & Resorts
Properties: 40 properties, mostly located in France, including the JJW Luxury Collection at the high end, Stars Hotels at the low, and the Median brand -- no surprise -- in the middle. Based in the U.K. Sample rate: $81, at the Median Lyon. jjwhotels.com
New Hotel
Properties: 13 small hotels in France and one in Brussels. Sample rate: $123, at the New Hotel La Baume in Nímes. new-hotel.com
Omena Hotels
Properties: Five automated hotels in Finland; guests check themselves in with a preset door code and contact housekeeping through interactive TVs. Sample rate: $49, at the Omena Hotel Eerikinkatu in Helsinki. omena.com
Premier Travel Inn
Properties: 480 mid-level U.K. locations with a king- or queen-size bed in every room; kids under 16 stay free and get breakfast free. Sample rate: $135, at the Oxford Premier Travel Inn. premiertravelinn.com
Sorat Hotels
Properties: 17 German hotels converted from, among other things, a grain silo, a blacksmith's shop, and a medieval inn. Sample rate: $123, at the Sorat Hotel Görlitz. sorat-hotels.com
Thon Hotels
Properties: 54 sleek, simple, ecofriendly hotels in Norway, Belgium and the Netherlands. Based in Norway. Sample rate: $137, at the Thon Hotel Astoria in Oslo. thonhotels.com
MIDDLE EAST/ NORTH AFRICA
Dan Hotels
Properties: 12 moderate to upscale hotels in Israel. Sample rate: $85, at the Dan Gardens Haifa Hotel. danhotels.com
Safir Hotels & Resorts
Properties: 16 mid-range, straightforward business hotels in Kuwait, Egypt, Syria, Lebanon and Algeria. Based in Kuwait. Sample rate: $174, at the Safir International Hotel Kuwait. safirhotels.com
MEXICO
Fiesta Americana/Fiesta Inn
Properties: 70 properties throughout the country, including full-service resorts in places like Puerto Vallarta (Fiesta Americana) and more-standard, business-style accommodations (Fiesta Inns). Sample rate: $151, at the Fiesta Americana Condesa Cancún; $106, at the Fiesta Inn Centro Histórico, in Mexico City. fiestamericana.com, fiestainn.com
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
City Lodge Hotels
Properties: 40 properties, all in South Africa. The company's Courtyard brand is at the high end of the spectrum, its motel-like Road Lodge is at the lower end, and City Lodge and Town Lodge are situated in between. Sample rate: $48, at the Road Lodge Durban. citylodge.co.za
Protea Hotels
Properties: 113 properties, mostly in South Africa with a few in Tanzania, Nigeria, Namibia, Zimbabwe and even the U.K. Hotels range from mid-level city properties to deluxe safari lodges. Based in South Africa. Sample rate: $154, at the Protea Hotel Aishi Machame, near Mount Kilimanjaro, in Tanzania. proteahotels.com  Read about five hot boutique-style brands in the U.S.   E-mail to a friend
Get the best travel deals and tips emailed to you FREE - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2009 Newsweek Budget Travel, Inc., all rights reserved.
Note: This story was accurate when it was published. Please be sure to confirm all rates and details directly with the companies in question before planning your trip.
