(CNN Student News) -- March 1, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Chile • Orlando, Florida • Indonesia
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: You're at the beginning of a new month, a new week and a new day of commercial-free headlines from CNN Student News. I'm Carl Azuz.
First Up: Chile Earthquake
AZUZ: Safety and food: top priorities in Chile after the country was jolted by a massive earthquake over the weekend. It struck very early Saturday morning when most people were sleeping. It registered a magnitude of 8.8; very powerful. A scientist with the U.S. Geological Survey says it released about 500 times more energy than the quake that hit Haiti in January. More than 90 aftershocks have been recorded in Chile, many of those pretty powerful in their own right. The damage: tremendous. As of yesterday evening, the quake was being blamed for more than 700 deaths. It affected 2 million people, caused serious damage to around half a million homes.
Chile's president called it an "unthinkable disaster." She declared a "state of catastrophe" in some regions that were hardest hit. State of catastrophe meaning that government aid is available; it's going to get to victims as fast as they can get it to them. However, the president also pointed out the recovery efforts will take quite a while.
PRESIDENT MICHELLE BACHELET, CHILE (TRANSLATED): We see the size and the dimension of this catastrophe is going to require a gigantic effort from the private and public sectors, not only now, but it's going to take us a long time in the future. We are in front of an emergency that has no point of reference in the past of Chile, in Chile's history.
AZUZ: As you can see on this map coming up right here, Chile is a long country. It runs down the western side of South America, along the Pacific Ocean. It's home to about 16 and a half million people. And the coastal region actually has a history of earthquakes. Since 1973, there have been 13 quakes there with a magnitude of at least 7.0. Because of that, experts say that newer buildings are built to help withstand the shocks. So, while the devastation caused by this quake is certainly severe, it's part of the reason why it might not be as bad as what we saw in Haiti.
However, the effects of this tremor were felt far away. In fact, the entire Pacific was under a tsunami warning; large waves that form in the ocean. They can be triggered by earthquakes. The warning for the tsunami, later canceled for all countries.  But listen to this: Hawaii, Australia and Japan, locations that are thousands of miles away from Chile, all experienced waves that were triggered by this quake.
Northeast Snowstorm
AZUZ: Heavy snow was the big story in the northeastern U.S. over the weekend again. This is the third major storm to hit the area in a month. And over the course of February, New York City set a new, all-time record for snowfall. This storm knocked out power to about 700,000 homes and businesses around the Northeast. That includes almost 225,000 in New York alone. According to one meteorologist, another round of severe winter weather could be coming this week.
Is this Legit?
PAUL CHAMBERS, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? A term in the U.S. House of Representatives lasts four years. Nope! A House term is two years, which means all 435 voting members are up for election this year.
Election Expectations
AZUZ: That election's coming up this November; campaign season has begun. Democrats currently control both the House and Senate. And here's what House Speaker Nancy Pelosi predicted about her party's election chances:
REP. NANCY PELOSI, (D) CALIFORNIA, HOUSE SPEAKER: The Democrats will retain the majority in the House of Representatives. I'm not yielding one grain of sand. We're fighting for every seat, but we are ready.
AZUZ: Meantime, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell talked about Republican chances:
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL, (R) KENTUCKY, SENATE MINORITY LEADER: Obviously, we're optimistic. But in the meantime, we need to be doing the people's business and not trying to predict what the environment may be in November. If the election were today, we'd have a very good day.
AZUZ: And here's what registered voters said in a recent CNN/Opinion Research Corporation Poll: 63 percent felt that most members of Congress don't deserve to be re-elected; 34 percent said they do.
SeaWorld Show
AZUZ: SeaWorld shows with orca, or killer, whales are back on again. The shows were suspended for three days after an accident involving one of the animals at the Orlando SeaWorld. It claimed the life of a trainer, Dawn Brancheau. The theme park, as well as two government agencies, are looking into this accident. Meantime, SeaWorld is putting new policies in place with regard to how trainers interact with the whales. Hundreds of people attended the orca show in Orlando on Saturday, the first one since the accident. It began with a tribute to Brancheau and a standing ovation for her fellow trainers. Some of the visitors who were there for the show talked about the experience.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE #1: I think it was great that they moved forward. I wished they would have said a little bit more, actually, about it, what had happened and what was going to happen. Because obviously everyone there was anxious and curious about what the future is.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE #2: It wasn't a happy atmosphere. We all stood up for the remembrance and we cheered the trainers.
This Day in History
[GRAPHIC] Salem Witch Trials -- Incident involved accusations of witchcraft. First charges issued on March 1, 1692. In all, 150 people imprisoned; 19 convicted and hanged.
[GRAPHIC] Peace Corps -- Established by President John F. Kennedy March 1, 1961. Promotes world peace and friendship. Volunteers work in developing countries. Nearly 200,000 volunteers and trainees to date.
Record Setting Medals
AZUZ: And some more history being made in Vancouver as the U.S. racks up the most medals ever by one country in a Winter Olympics. 37 total medals, when you add up gold, silver and bronze. This also marks the first time since 1932 that the U.S. has been first place in the overall medal count at a Winter Games.
Adopt a Tiger?
AZUZ: All right, our next story today is about owning a cat; it's not so unusual. Some people might have a chance to adopt a rare breed, though, thanks to a plan being considered by Indonesia. The thing is, these cats weigh up to 500 pounds! That's 'cause they're tigers! And all you need to get one is a big chunk of money. As Arwa Damon explains, some people are concerned about the consequences of this.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
ARWA DAMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT, JAKARTA: Ever dream of owning a tiger? If you are in Indonesia, it just might be possible. These Sumatran tigers at the safari park outside of Jakarta could soon be up for adoption. It's part of a conservation initiative the government is considering. For a $100,000 deposit, ordinary citizens would be allowed to care for a pair of these critically endangered wild cats in their own backyard, as long as it's at least a tenth the size of a football field.
DARORI, INDONESIAN DIRECTOR GENERAL, FOREST PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION [TRANSLATED]: We hope that this program will help to eradicate poaching, because in Indonesia or abroad, a lot of people want to have tigers as pets. But because it's illegal, they go and buy dead tigers.
DAMON: With this option, Darori says, the ones in the wild will be left alone. Illegal poaching and an 80 percent loss of tiger habitat in Sumatra has caused their numbers in the wild to dwindle down to a few hundred.
These guys do look like they would make absolutely adorable pets right now. But they're not going to stay this small or this cuddly for long. Officials are saying that they do believe that this program will be successful, because it's based on a similar initiative that they launched earlier for the Balinese mynah bird that was on the verge of extinction. Problem is, caring for a bird the size of a pidgeon and caring for a tiger, not exactly the same thing. Now, they are very small.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE TIGER KEEPER: Yes, very small.
DAMON: In nine months, they will be this big. With big appetites.
The keepers were all stunned to hear that their tigers could end up as household pets. The keepers here go through a rigorous training program, Arsyad explains. The government says it's planning on assigning keepers to each pair that is adopted. Conservationists say animals like these belong in the wild, not as a backyard symbol of prestige. Arwa Damon, CNN, Bogor, Indonesia.
(END VIDEO)
Blog Promo
AZUZ: Under consideration in Utah: an optional senior year; letting high school students graduate as juniors. Not a popular idea with some students, but it would save the school money, something you are constantly hearing about in this recession. We want to hear what you've seen in your school. Field trips canceled? Bigger class sizes? Tell us at CNNStudentNews.com.
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go, you better watch your mouth! Especially if you live in California. What the... ?!? The State House has passed a resolution that would make the first week of March "Cuss Free Week." A time to silence the swears. Police officers won't be washing out anybody's mouth with soap. The idea is just to make things a little more polite, even if it's only for a few days. This was actually inspired by a student.
Goodbye
AZUZ: He started the no cussing idea in his school, but lawmakers swear it can work for the state. Okay, we can bleep today's pun on air. But our transcript includes every word we say. So if you were to go to, say, CNNStudentNews.com, for example, no one could stop you from finding out what we said. Have a great day. For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.
