(CNN)  -- Glasgow Rangers won their 53rd Scottish title and ninth under manager Walter Smith as a 1-0 win over Hibernian on Sunday gave them an unassailable points advantage over city rivals Celtic.
Kyle Lafferty scored his third goal in four games to secure the three points for Rangers, who were the defending champions.
Earlier, Celtic beat Dundee United 2-0 with Senegalese striker Diomansy Kamara and Robbie Keane, with a last-minute penalty, scoring the goals.
It was their fifth straight league win under interim manager Neil Lennon, but Rangers' title triumph was a formality which was confirmed later at Easter Road.
Lafferty was on target after 17 minutes as Kenny Miller set him on his way to score with an angled drive.
Smith, who won his first seven Scottish titles with Rangers in his first spell at the club, savored the latest victory which has come against the backdrop of financial worries and uncertainty over the future ownership of the famous club.
"You always feel grateful for the fact that you've won a trophy and you are in this position, as Rangers teams are a lot of the time," he told gathered reporters.
In Bundesliga action on Sunday, Europa League semifinalists Hamburg were thrashed 5-1 at Hoffenheim.
Strikers Chinedu Obasi and Vedad Ibisevic both scored twice for the hosts in the rout which followed Hamburg's goalless draw with Fulham in the first leg of their last four Europa clash on Thursday and ahead of next week's return.
In Spain's La Liga, Valencia kept their third grip on third place with a 1-0 win over Deportivo la Coruna as David Villa scored a first half penalty.
Athletico Madrid warmed up for their Europa League semifinal second leg against Liverpool by beating Tenerife 3-1, with Sergio Aguero scoring their third. Atletico lead Liverpool 1-0 going to Anfield on Thursday.
A dramatic late penalty from Daniel Parejo gave Getafe a 4-3 victory over Sevilla in the late match in Spain.
Sevilla could have taken advantage of Mallorca's surprise 1-1 draw against Malaga to claim fourth place.
Siem de Jong's early double gave Ajax a 2-0 lead after the Dutch Cup final first leg against Feyenoord.
The Dutch under-21 midfielder scored in the sixth and seventh minutes at the Amsterdam Arena for Martin Jol's men.
Marseille are closing on the French league title as Mathieu Valbuena scored the only goal of the match in a 1-0 win over St Etienne.
With just four games remaining they are five points clear of Auxerre, who beat Toulouse 3-0 in an earlier match.
