Over the course of two days, 10.5 million people spent four hours watching Kim Kardashian and NBA player Kris Humphries tie the knot.
Since the couple's E! special, "Kim's Fairytale Wedding," which aired on October 9 and 10, the pair has honeymooned in Europe, celebrated Kardashian's 31st birthday in Las Vegas, filmed a new season of "Kourtney & Kim Take New York" and filed for divorce.
Citing irreconcilable differences, according to court documents from Los Angeles Superior Court, Kardashian filed for divorce from her husband of 72 days on Monday.
Please take this time to pick your jaws up off the floor. Wait, you're not surprised?
Most people probably saw this coming, said Jared Shapiro, executive editor at Life & Style Weekly.
"Anyone that saw the wedding and the time leading up to it ... there was an 'Oh boy, what's she getting herself into?' " Shapiro said. "I don't think people are surprised that there was trouble and that it ended. But I don't think people expected it to end this fast."
"Kim's Fairytale Wedding" -- an appropriate title, as "Kim's Fairytale Marriage" would miss something in syndication -- certainly didn't skimp on the drama. If the couple was trying to display how in love they were to the world, they fell a little short.
CNN.com readers react to the divorce news
The special showed the couple arguing over everything from seating charts and desserts to who would perform at their wedding (singer Robin Thicke beat out Christina Aguilera.) Not to mention the blowout that ensued when Kardashian told Humphries she wasn't taking his name.
They probably didn't go through every detail that should be discussed before a wedding, Shapiro said, noting that some media outlets are reporting the couple couldn't agree on a place to live.
"I have to be in L.A. for work and (Humphries) loves to go to Minnesota and he also has a place in Miami," Kardashian told People in September. "I think we'll kind of figure it out as we go along."
"That's why you have a relationship, then an engagement, then a marriage," Shapiro added. "Celebrities often call their engagements off, too. That didn't happen. The fact that it was being filmed for TV might have accelerated all their problems."
Face it: If a couple can't compromise on what desserts to have at their wedding, how are they supposed to settle on a place to live?
And let's not forget about the mustache Humphries grew before the big day to prove he still had control over his life. (He ended up shaving it before walking down the aisle.)
Of course, it's impossible to discount the role editing plays in reality shows like this one. However, why would E! be hell-bent on making sure Kardashian and her future hubby looked completely discontented with one another?
So what does it come down to?
"Kim wanted to get married and be a wife and a bride," said Mike Walters, a news manager at TMZ. "But did that trump, 'I want to marry Kris and be his wife?' "
"After all the wedding hoopla ended," Walters added, "they realized they're not good for each other."
Read Narcissists want weddings, not marriage
But, Walters and Life & Style's Shapiro agree, sham isn't the right word to describe the pair's short-lived union.
"Guess what, she really got married and she really got divorced," Shapiro said. "This part wasn't scripted. ... She didn't want to get divorced in front of the whole world. What about the people who gave them wedding gifts? ... This isn't a game she played. She tried to make it work. It didn't. She pulled the trigger."
On the flip side, when Khloe Kardashian wed Lamar Odom after one month, some people assumed their marriage was just a publicity stunt. Now, two years later, the couple is still together. Ironically, or not, their relationship was even questioned by Humphries during "Kim's Fairytale Wedding" special.
Seventy-two days of marriage might yield a one-hour divorce special, Walters said, but, "How much great TV would they have gotten if Kim and Kris had moved to Minnesota, not liked it, moved back to L.A.? ... This could have been something they played out for months."
Walters, who said Kardashian and Humphries were "100% genuine," joked, "If this was made up for the show, they could have done it a lot better."
