An explosive century from birthday boy Ross Taylor helped New Zealand crush Pakistan by 110 runs and go top of their group at the Cricket World Cup.
Taylor hit an unbeaten 131 off just 124 balls as the Kiwis smashed an incredible 100 runs off the final five overs of their innings.
New Zealand looked set to post a modest total as they labored to 164-4 with ten overs remaining but fireworks from Taylor -- who hit seven sixes -- and Jacob Oram saw them amass 138 more runs.
Finishing on 302-7 off their 50 overs the Kiwis shell shocked Pakistan, who contributed to their own downfall with sloppy fielding and poor bowling.
Pakistan then slumped to 23-4 in their reply and only a partnership of 66 between Abdul Razzaq (62) and Umar Gul (34 not out) added a modicum of respectability to their total of 192.
The only negative for New Zealand was an injury to their captain Daniel Vettori who limped off after diving to stop a ball in the field.
Martin Guptill got New Zealand off to a brisk start as he compiled 57 runs but it was Taylor who held the innings together.
Brendon McCullum, Jamie How and James Franklin went for low totals but Scott Styris steadied the ship with 28 runs. At 164-4 though, New Zealand were looking as if they would post a below-par total.
Taylor was dropped twice early in his innings, with wicketkeeper Kamran Akmal at fault, but he made the most of his reprieve with some devastating hitting, taking 24 runs off a Shoaib Akhtar over and 30 off one from Abdul Razzaq.
Jacob Oram also chipped in with three sixes as New Zealand transformed their innings and finished with 302.
Tim Southee then took three wickets as Pakistan faltered in their reply with Styris, Kyle Mills and Nathan McCullum also taking two wickets apiece.
New Zealand are now top of Group A, replacing Pakistan.
Elsewhere, England were dealt another injury blow after bowler Stuart Broad was ruled out of the World Cup.
Broad is suffering from a side strain picked up in the win over South Africa and will return to England soon.
His injury comes just two days after batsman Kevin Pietersen was forced to pull out of the tournament with a hernia. His replacement, Eoin Morgan, joined up with the England squad on Tuesday.
