A Tennessee woman secretly gave birth to twin boys in a toilet in the home she shares with her parents and then smothered the infants and hid their bodies in a bedroom laundry basket, police said Friday.
Lindsey Lowe's father discovered one of the bodies Wednesday morning and called police, Hendersonville Police Lt. Scott Ryan said.
"Someone can give me 100 explanations as to why, but I will never be able to understand this fully," he said.
Lowe, 25, was charged with two counts of first-degree murder. She remained jailed Friday pending a Monday appearance before a Sumner County judge.
She gave birth to the first baby between 8:30 and 9 p.m. Monday, according to an affidavit filed by police.
Lowe, who according to the affidavit confessed to killing her newborns, said she didn't look at either of the babies as she "placed her hand" over each child's mouths to stop them from crying.
Lowe told authorities that she knew she was pregnant "almost the whole time" but that no one else -- including her family -- was aware, according to the affidavit.
It took a "couple of minutes" for the first child to die, according to the affidavit, while Lowe said the second baby died more quickly. Both children were males and full-term, weighing about 5 to 6 pounds, the affidavit said.
The woman told police she placed the bodies in a laundry basket and covered them with towels to hide them.
Her attorney, John Pellegrin, said that his client was "extremely distraught" in the two times he's met with her in jail. Pellegrin said Lowe was "on suicide watch," receiving sedatives from medical personnel at the corrections facility.
"This is an inexplicable situation and extremely sad for everyone involved," Pellegrin told HLN's Jane Velez-Mitchell.
She was at work at a dental clinic for children when her father found the bodies, police said.
One of her co-workers, Michelle Stainback, told CNN affiliate WTVF that "we're all just shocked and saddened."
"I've tried to put myself in that position over and over since last night," she said. "You don't know what they're thinking or what they're going through."
Ryan admitted that authorities still didn't have all the answers.
And Ron Blanton, an assistant district attorney in Sumner County, told HLN's Velez-Mitchell that the case "wears on" those seeking justice in the case.
"It's a horrible tragedy, a horrible tragedy," Blanton said. "It's a sad state, a horrific circumstance."
