Tom Carson of GQ probably put it best in his review of the return of "Mad Men" for its sixth season:
"Every year, TV critics get all tingly when our early screeners of 'Mad Men's' premiere (episode) show up in the mail," he writes.
Critics are weighing in on the new season which starts Sunday night. Well, weighing in as much as they can as creator Matthew Weiner has asked those who've been fortunate enough to view the premiere to not share certain details.
Weiner's penchant for secrecy is just adding to the sense of expectation it seems.
'Mad Men' and the other 1960s
"No showrunner in television history is as obsessed with secrecy as 'Mad Men's' Weiner," writes Andy Greenwald for Grantland. "He protects even the smallest details of his Emmy-winning show like Dick Whitman guarding the skeletons of his past.
Mo Ryan has written a piece about the secrets. "There's no problem with the content of "Mad Men," which I plan to write about each week this season," she said. "What's making me glum is the draconian code of silence that surrounds the show."
Mad men, mad 'dos: What the late '60s really looked like
Weiner did share a few of the plot points with CNN's Jake Tapper. "There is a sense that someone like Don and seeing the world through Don's eyes, who is now 40, is going to become out of touch," Weiner said. " And it's really the story for all of the characters. They're all sort of moving towards some kind of hopefully reconciliation with who they are, but there's quite a fire to walk through."
'Mad Men' creator: Criticism of Romney based on fact
So far the chatter from TV insiders seems positive.
Time's James Poniewozik wrote "it would be absurd to claim, on the basis of the first two hours, that the show is 'better' or 'worse' or even 'as good' as ever."
"I liked the episode, a lot," he said. "But I also liked, a lot, Mad Men's season 3, which until its office-Ocean's-Eleven finale turned off some fans with its slow pace and melancholy."
Even the smallest details are being anticipated. Seth Stevenson from Slate writes "What will the clothes and hairstyles look like? Is it at last time for shaggy sideburns? Will bras get burned? Will lapels spread wider?"
Rolling Stone even has a "Mad Men" cheat sheet to get folks up to speed. The experts aren't the only ones excited. Fans are also eagerly awaiting more of the Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce action.
Twitter user JaiMe tweeted "It's going to take A LOT of man to get me off of my #madmen crush. I am completely addicted and hooked. I need meds. #madmen."
Even famed author Jackie Collins tweeted "Can't wait for #MadMen!"
Living large in Don Draper's New York
