Robinho fired AC Milan to a shock 1-0 victory over league leaders Juventus to end the Turin club's 25-match unbeaten streak away from home in Serie A.
Juventus had not tasted defeat on the road in the domestic league since May 1 2011 but was unable to find a way to see off an inspired Milan.
While Juventus, fresh from its 3-0 thrashing of European champion Chelsea, has enjoyed a stellar start to the campaign, Milan has looked lacklustre.
Club owner and former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi visited the players last week to discuss the team's failings.
And those words of wisdom appeared to have the desired effect as the home side produced the kind of performance which had been so sorely missing in previous weeks.
The breakthrough came just after the half-hour mark when Mauricio Isla handled the ball inside the penalty area and Robinho fired home from the spot.
Mexes wonder goal lifts Milan into knockout stages
Juve piled forward after the break and Mirko Vucinic went close to grabbing an equalizer, but Milan held out to move up to ninth and ease the pressure on boss Massimiliano Allegri.
Elsewhere, Fiorentina moved into second following a 2-2 draw at Torino.
Alessio Cerci put the home side ahead five minutes before the break only for Gonzalo Rodriguez to level from the penalty spot.
Valter Birsa's 76th minute strike looked to have won it for Torino, but Mounir El Hamdaoui struck five minutes from time to snatch a point for the Viola.
Sampdoria moved further away from the drop zone courtesy of an Andrea Poli effort as it won 1-0 at struggling Bologna.
Genoa ended its run of six consecutive league defeats with a 1-0 win at Atalanta thanks to Andrea Bertolacci's goal.
Roma grabbed a 1-0 win at Pescara with Mattia Perin's fifth minute goal condemning Cristiano Bergodi to defeat in his first game in charge.
Chievo's Mamadou Samassa was sent off as his side drew 0-0 with Siena.
Marvellous Messi
In Spain, Lionel Messi scored twice to take his tally to 82 for the year as Barcelona cruised to a 4-0 win at Levante.
Tito Vilanova's side set a new league record after scoring four goals away from home for the fourth game in a row.
Messi is now just four goals away from surpassing Gerd Muller's record of 85, which came during his time playing for Bayern Munich and Germany in 1972.
Magic Messi moves in on record
All the goals came after the break following wonderful play from midfielder Andres Iniesta, who ripped the heart out of Levante.
The diminutive playmaker scored one himself and laid on both of Messi's goals before setting up Cesc Fabregas to seal the win.
Barca keeper Victor Valdes saved a late penalty as the visitors kept a clean sheet.
It means Barca has now equaled Real Madrid's 1991-1992 La Liga record of taking 37 points from its first 13 matches.
Falcao on fire
Atletico Madrid remains just three points behind Barca following its crushing 4-0 victory over nine-man Sevilla.
Goals from Radamel Falcao, Arda Turan, Koke and Miranda sealed the win for Atletico and takes it eight points clear of local rivals Real Madrid going into next Saturday's derby game.
Sevilla, who lost Federico Fazio after just 22 minutes, was three goals down at the break as Atletico recorded its seventh consecutive home win.
The visiting side was reduced to nine men on 83 minutes after Ivan Rakitic picked up a second yellow card and Miranda rubbed salt in Sevilla's wounds by firing home a late fourth.
Elsewhere, Athletic Bilbao and Deportivo La Coruna shared the points in a 1-1 draw in the San Mames stadium.
Oscar de Marcos put the home side ahead on 24 minutes only for Abel Aguilar hit an equalizer early in the second-half
Getafe claimed a 2-0 victory at Espanyol to keep the Barcelona side bottom of the table, two points behind Deportivo.
Pedro Leon put Getafe ahead on 15 minutes before Mane doubled the lead in the final minute.
Marseille on the march
In France, Marseille moved level with arch-rivals Paris Saint-Germain at the top of Ligue 1 following a 1-0 home win over 10-man Lille.
Florent Balmont was sent off in first-half stoppage time with Jordan Ayew scoring a minute after the interval to seal the victory.
Elie Baup's side are on 26 points but trail PSG on goal difference.
Lyon missed the chance to go top after suffering a 3-0 defeat against Toulouse.
Wissam Ben Yedder scored twice with Etienne Capoue sealing the win after the interval.
Lyon remains one point off the lead, while Toulouse moves up to seventh.
Defending champions Montpellier claimed a 1-0 victory over Bordeaux to take its unbeaten league run to five games.
The win, courtesy of a Remy Cabella strike, takes Montpellier up to 12th on 17 points.
Freiburg on fire
In the German Bundesliga, Freiburg moved up to sixth with a crushing 3-0 win over VfB Stuttgart.
Freiburg faces Bayern Munich in its next game but will be full of confidence thanks to goals from Jan Rosenthal, Pavel Krmas and Max Kruse
Bayer Leverkusen remains fifth following a 2-1 victory over Hoffenheim.
Mid-table Borussia Moenchengladbach needed a late equaliser from Patrick Herrmann to rescue a point at bottom side Augsburg as it finished in a 1-1 draw
