The entertainment industry was not immune to the impact of the fires blazing across Southern California.
At the Santa Clarita Studios in Valencia, California -- about 30 miles north of Los Angeles -- some staffers weren't able to get to work Monday, due to traffic on area roadways and concern about their homes, according to Variety. Interstate 5, a major north-south artery, runs directly through the area.
Two CBS shows, "NCIS" and "The Unit," have sets at Santa Clarita, but neither shut down shooting Monday, according to the industry trade paper. The Stevenson Ranch fire was near enough that "NCIS" staffers could see the smoke, according to The Hollywood Reporter, another trade paper.
"The Unit" set was functioning normally Tuesday, said CBS spokesperson Susan Marks.
"We're fine," she told CNN. "We've had no interruption to production."
Fox's "24" wasn't quite as lucky on Monday, The Hollywood Reporter reported. The show was shooting at a Marine Corps air station in Irvine, about 40 miles southeast of Los Angeles, and had to cancel filming at 7:30 a.m. at one of the base's hangars due to smoke from the Santiago fire. The show's producers decided to shoot other scenes on its stages elsewhere in Southern California.  Watch the fire at the Stevenson Ranch »
A handful of shows, including CBS' "Cold Case" and ABC's "Big Shots," either scrapped shoots or changed locations due to the fires. "Cold Case's" Simi Valley sets were blown over by the strong winds in the area, The Hollywood Reporter said.  Watch planes and choppers battle a fire and clouds of smoke in Valencia »
If production units and studios were scrambling, other businesses benefited from the disruption caused by the fires. A number of upscale Los Angeles-area lodgings, including the Peninsula and Four Seasons hotels in Beverly Hills, reported a flurry of bookings, according to Variety.
At the Four Seasons, a front desk clerk confirmed the influx. "We've had quite a few people come to stay with us," she told CNN. Sunday night saw a number of walk-in guests, mostly from Malibu, she added.
Those guests might not be able to stay long, though: with a number of group bookings scheduled for later in the week, the walk-in guests may have to find other arrangements.
Tori Spelling and Dean McDermott's newly renovated bed and breakfast, Chateau La Rue, in Fallbrook, California, about 100 miles southeast of Los Angeles, was also affected.
"We don't know the extent of it," McDermott told People.com. "There were guests on their way [to the B&B], but they were notified and sent back. The whole town of Fallbrook was evacuated." The two were in Los Angeles to support Spelling's former "Beverly Hills 90210" castmate Jennie Garth on "Dancing With the Stars."
Malibu, one of the areas most directly affected by the fires, is the home of a number of celebrities, including Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson, Mel Gibson, Jennifer Aniston, Victoria Principal and Sting.
Gibson and Principal, who live in in different areas of Malibu, were both evacuated early Monday morning. They are both in undisclosed locations and their families and pets are OK, according to spokespeople. So far, their houses have been spared.  Watch John Travolta talk about flying over the fire zone »
Sean Penn has lost two trailers to the fires, according to the TV show "Access Hollywood." The trailers were next to the site of a Penn home that burned down during the 1993 fires.
Castle Kashan, a 10,500-square-foot home often used for shoots and private events, was destroyed by the fire on Sunday, the Los Angeles Times reported. The owner of Castle Kashan, socialite and philanthropist Lilly Lawrence, managed to escape, but a number of her belongings -- including Faberge eggs, presidential autographs and Elvis Presley memorabilia -- were lost. The house, a Malibu landmark, was built in 1978.
The fire has shut down a stretch of the Pacific Coast Highway that runs through the area.  Watch actress Jamie Lee Curtis describe the fire as an 'act of man' »
One well-known entertainment industry figure -- and Malibu hotel owner -- hasn't forgotten about the emergency workers trying to control the situation. Film and music mogul David Geffen opened his Malibu Beach Inn to firefighters and rescue workers for free, according to Variety. E-mail to a friend
