Rep. Paul Ryan might have to decide which job he wants more -- running the powerful House Ways and Means Committee or running for president in 2016.
House Republicans adopted a new rule that could force Ryan's hand as he considers his future. The new provision requires any House committee chair who decides to seek higher office to turn in his or her gavel.
The Wisconsin Republican is viewed one of his party's top policymakers. Ryan currently serves as the Budget Committee chair, but is seeking support for the post as the head of the tax writing panel in 2015, and is expected to get the nod next week.
Ryan has made no secret that he views that post, which would make him the lead to craft health care changes, tax reform and other major legislation, as his dream job.  The former 2012 GOP vice presidential nominee has also left the door open to a bid for the 2016 presidential ticket.
Although the rule wasn't directly aimed at Ryan, his name mentioned when the proposal came up for a vote inside a closed door meeting on Friday. According to one GOP source familiar with the discussion, he was present for the discussion, but there wasn't any extensive debate about the change.
Ryan's office declined to comment on the new rule.
Oklahoma Rep. Tom Cole drafted the proposal in response to a situation that developed last year when Georgia Rep. Jack Kingston, who chaired a key Appropriations subcommittee, ran for Senate, according to two House Republican sources.
Kingston presided over the panel that drafts the annual budgets for Labor and Health agencies, but failed to pass a bill through his committee because he was focused on his campaign. Kingston didn't win the GOP Senate nomination, and Cole and other members on the Appropriations committee, felt that the lack of action hurt the overall effort to put together the full series of funding bills for the year.
The new rule does come with an out -- Ryan could seek a waiver from leaders if he decides to run for president but wants to retain his chairmanship. Given his close ties to House Speaker John Boehner and others, it's likely he could get one.
