Lionel Messi scored his 19th consecutive league goal on Saturday setting another La Liga record as Barcelona drew 2-2 at relegation-threatened Celta Vigo.
The Argentine's 73rd minute strike -- his 29th in 19 league matches -- makes him the first player in the history of Spanish football to score against every other league opponent in succession.
"It is a unheard of record that no one has ever achieved. This shows how great this player is," said Barcelona assistant coach Jordi Roura.
Messi's second-half strike gave the Catalans the lead for the first time in the match, after they had gone behind to a Natxo Insa goal in the 38th minute.
The visitors were back on level terms five minutes later thanks to a Cristian Tello strike and when Messi slotted home with 17 minutes remaining Barcelona looked odds-on for all three points.
But the home side had other ideas and with two minutes remaining found an equalizer through Borja Oubina.
Real Madrid failed to capitalize on their rivals slip up, drawing 1-1 at Zaragoza.
Rodri put the home side ahead after six minutes with Cristiano Ronaldo equalizing in the 38th minute, before a stalemate ensued in the second half.
The result means Barcelona remain 13 points clear at the top. Atletico Madrid will move into second ahead of Real if they beat Valencia on Sunday.
Malaga warmed up for their Champions League clash with reigning German champions Borussia Dortmund with a 3-1 away to Rayo Vallecano.
Meanwhile in Serie A, Juventus remain on course for a second consecutive league title after beating Inter Milan 2-1 at the San Siro on Saturday.
The reigning champions were ahead after three minutes when Fabio Quagliarella's shot from the edge of the area found the back of the net.
Rodrigo Palacio equalized in the 54th minute, but the scores weren't level for long as Alessandro Matri grabbed the winner six minutes later.
The win maintains their nine-point lead at the top of the table over Napoli who were 5-3 winners at Torino.
Seventh-placed Inter now trail the leaders by 21 points and with much work to do if they are secure a place in the Champions League next season.
AC Milan consolidated third place with a 1-0 win at Cheivo as fourth-place Fiorentina lost 2-1 at Cagliari.
Lazio move up to fifth after a 2-1 against Catania, while Roma slip to sixth following a 2-0 defeat at relegation-threatened Palermo.
