Four of O.J. Simpson's accomplices in the 2007 robbery at a Las Vegas hotel were given suspended sentences Tuesday by Nevada District Judge Jackie Glass.
District Court Judge Jackie Glass sentenced four O.J. Simpson codefendants to probation on Tuesday.
The four -- Charles Cashmore, Charles Erlich, Michael McClinton and Walter Alexander -- all turned on Simpson and cooperated in the case against him.
Simpson was sentenced last week to at least nine and as many as 33 years in prison in the case. Glass called him "arrogant" and "ignorant."
Before announcing the suspended sentences Tuesday, Glass said the actions of Cashmore, Erlich, McClinton and Alexander were "stupid but also criminal" when they accompanied the former football star to the Palace Station Hotel and Casino on September 13, 2007.
But she praised them for taking responsibility for their actions and for cooperating with the state's case against Simpson.
Should they violate the terms of their probation, the four could face prison time ranging from 12 months to 84 months, depending on the specific charges against them.
The four apologized to the state and the victims in the case before their sentences were read in court Tuesday.
Simpson, a former Heisman Trophy winner and record-setting NFL running back, had enlisted the help of Cashmore, Erlich, McClinton and Alexander, along with Clarence "C.J." Stewart, in an effort to get sports memorabilia items that Simpson claimed belong to him from dealers Bruce Fromong and Al Beardsley.
The six men confronted the dealers in a hotel room, brandishing weapons but not firing them.
Stewart received a sentence similar to Simpson's but will be eligible for parole in 7½ years.  Watch how Simpson's conviction came down »
Glass ordered Fromong removed from the courtroom Tuesday after he made a comment during the sentencing of McClinton, who admitted brandishing a gun in the hotel room.
Glass still has to decide restitution in the case a schedule a hearing on that for Friday morning.
The four men sentenced Tuesday walked meekly from the courtroom to report to law enforcement officials and get details on their probation.
On Friday, Simpson was led from the courtroom in shackles. He'll remain jailed while an appeal is pending.
