(CNN)  -- Usain Bolt put his 100m nightmare behind him to claim gold in the 200m final at the world championships in Daegu Saturday.
Bolt, disqualified for a false start in the final of the shorter sprint, made no mistake this time as he powered to victory in 19.40 seconds, the fourth fastest of all time.
"I feel great. I'm still the best. After the false start on Sunday, I was extremely disappointed not to have given myself the chance to defend my 100m title," Bolt said, AFP reported.
"The 200m represented a great opportunity for me to put it behind me and move on, and I've been determined to do so all week," he added, AFP reported.
Olympic champion Bolt was defending the title he won in Berlin in 2009 and the outcome never looked in doubt once he had come safely out of his blocks and quickly made up ground on Walter Dix of the United States on his outside.
Dix took silver in 19.70 seconds with France's Christophe Lemaitre in bronze as he broke the 20 seconds barrier for the first time.
Bolt will get the chance to add to his gold tally when his Jamaican team defend their 4 x 100m relay title Sunday.
Meanwhile, South African Oscar Pistorius received his silver medal in a ceremony for the men's 4 x 400m relay, won Friday by the United States.
Pistorius is the first non-able bodied athlete to win a medal in the world championships, but controversially was left of the the South African team for the final, having run the first leg in the qualifier.
South African officials claimed he was omitted on merit, but the double amputee clearly remained unhappy with the decision despite the team's success.
"Well done to the SA 4x400 relay team, they got a silver. Was really hard watching knowing I deserved to be part of it. Off to my bed, nyt all," he wrote on this Twitter blog after the race.
"Re all the messages, receiving a lot of questions I dont know the answers to. Have the 2nd fastest time in SA and ran a 45.3 this wk," he added.
In other final action Saturday in South Korea, the United States extended their dominance in the women's 4 x 400 meter relay, claiming a fourth straight world championship gold ahead of Jamaica and Russia.
Kenya's Asbel Kiprop added the world 1500m title to his Olympic crown as the 22-year-old held off compatriot Silas Kiplagat in the charge for the line.
American Matthew Centrowitz took a surprise bronze behind them.
Australia's Sally Pearson stormed to victory in the women's 100m hurdles in the third fastest time of all time, 12.28 seconds, leaving American pair Danielle Carruthers and Dawn Harper with silver and bronze.
In the men's javelin Matthias de Zordo of Germany shocked defending champion Andreas Thorkildsen to relegate the Norwegian to silver.
Russia's Anna Chicherova won the women's world high jump title after countback with a best of 2.03m.
Two-time defending champion Blanka Vlasic of Croatia cleared the same height, but had more attempts at earlier heights.
