Less than a week after releasing its 100 Books to Read in a Lifetime, Amazon is out with a new list: 150 Love Stories for Every Romantic Mood, just in time for Valentine's Day.
Books that made the cut include Margaret Mitchell's "Gone with the Wind," Elizabeth Gilbert's "Eat, Pray, Love" and E.L. James' "Fifty Shades" trilogy.
The list spans 12 categories -- Dangerous Love, Dystopian Love, First Love, Historical Romance, Love Overseas, Love on the Big Screen, Modern Love, Paranormal Love, Sizzling Series, Star-Crossed Love, True Love and Unlikely Love -- with entries sprinkled among the adult and young adult genres.
While many categories are filled with fictional romances, the True Love set features memoirs and autobiographies, including "Just Kids" by Patti Smith, "Love & War" by James Carville and Mary Matalin, and "The Pioneer Woman" by Ree Drummond (known for her Food Network show of the same name).
The CNN Living team noted that several modern classics we love were omitted from the Amazon list, including "Love in the Time of Cholera" by Gabriel García Márquez, "Love Is a Mix Tape" by Rob Sheffield, "All the Living" by C.E. Morgan and "How Stella Got Her Groove Back" by Terry McMillan.
Team Living collected our 40 favorite titles from the Amazon list in the gallery above. Take a look and see if you agree with our top picks.
Sara Nelson, editorial director of print and Kindle books at Amazon.com, said her team wanted to capture the essence of the Valentine's Day season in a bigger way this year by expanding last year's 50 Great American Love Stories, which highlighted love stories set in each U.S. state.
"We sat in front of the computer and the shelves of books in Seattle, and we took out everything we thought would count as a love story," Nelson said. "I think the big surprise, though, is how many kinds of love there are. When we came up with the categories, it wasn't hard to fill them."
Though some were surprised that Shakespeare didn't make the 100 Books to Read in a Lifetime list, "Romeo and Juliet" made the cut this time in the Star-Crossed Lovers category. Other well-known picks were "The Perks of Being a Wallflower" by Stephen Chbosky and "The Time Traveler's Wife" by Audrey Niffenegger.
The set also includes compilations of letters between former President and first lady John and Abigail Adams and between Georgia O'Keeffe and Alfred Stieglitz.
"There's always a little bit of serendipity in these things, because you could do this list with 300 books, 500 books," Nelson said. "We have a list, we refine it, we add, then we refine. What you come up with in the end is a mish-mash, but I think that's what's interesting."
All the books on the list can be viewed at Amazon.com, and CNN Living's top 40 favorites are included in the gallery above. Let us know which ones you agree with and which you think should have been included in the comments section below.
