Paraguay striker Roque Santa Cruz hopes to revive his stalled career after securing a return to his old stomping ground at English Premier League club Blackburn Rovers.
The 29-year-old has left high-flying Manchester City on loan for the rest of this season, having failed to make an impact following his $28 million move from Blackburn in mid-2009.
"I feel like I am coming home. This has been the easiest decision of my career," he told the Blackburn website on Friday.
"I want to get playing and scoring goals again, and this is a real chance for me to prove myself after a frustrating period. Everyone knows what Blackburn Rovers means to me."
Santa Cruz scored 29 goals in two seasons at Ewood Park after joining on a free transfer from German club Bayern Munich, and he followed former Rovers manager Mark Hughes to City.
Who will be the bargain signings of the January sales?
But he initially struggled with injury and failed to impress Hughes' successor Roberto Mancini as Carlos Tevez, Emmanuel Adebayor, Mario Balotelli and recent signing Edin Dzeko have taken precedence.
Mancini has this week also allowed former England defender Wayne Bridge to join the Premier League's bottom club West Ham on loan for the rest of this season.
Blackburn have missed out with ambitious bids for Ronaldinho and David Beckham since Venky's took over the club, but manager Steve Kean believes the move for Santa Cruz is proof of the Indian owners' commitment to success.
"That is something that shows the fans we can now go and compete, and we can see off other teams -- not only in this country but abroad," he said.
Italian club Genoa have signed Argentina international striker Mauro Boselli on loan until the end of this season from struggling English club Wigan.
The 25-year-old has struggled to make an impact since joining from Estudiantes, where he was top scorer in last season's Primera Clasura.
"At the moment he is not in a position where he can help the club, and I am confident he will come back a better and stronger player after his stay in Italy," Wigan's Spanish manager Roberto Martinez told the club's website.
South Africa's World Cup midfielder Steven Pienaar is expected to leave English club Everton after manager David Moyes revealed on Friday that a bid had been accepted for the player.
The 28-year-old, who has been linked with Tottenham and Inter Milan, is out of contract at the end of this season, and has turned down a new deal.
"We have had two offers -- one of which has been accepted -- and we have given permission for his representatives to speak to the club involved," Moyes told the Everton website.
