Anti-government protesters and Thai security forces maintained their delicate day-old truce, despite provocative moves by demonstrators determined to break into the main police headquarters here.
Hundreds of whistle-blowing demonstrators organized a raucous gathering at the gates of the Thai Royal Police Headquarters on Wednesday morning.
"We will not leave until we enter police headquarters, but there must not be violence," said one elderly woman who was armed with a whistle and seated in a folding chair.
Moments later, demonstrators dressed in makeshift protective gear, including gas-masks, goggles, bicycle helmets, and plastic bags, used ladders and wire cutters to dismantle coils of razor protecting the police headquarters' main gate.
On the other side of several layers of barbed wire and concrete barriers, rows of hundreds of riot police stood and watched. They did not intervene, however, even after cheering demonstrators toppled and pulled away concrete barriers, one giant block at a time.
"We want police to treat us our people fairly the same way they behave towards the reds," protest leader Thavorn Seniam announced into a loudspeaker. He was referring to government supporters known as "red shirts." Opposition activists differentiate themselves by dressing in yellow or black.
A temporary truce
Last week, scores of people were wounded and at least three people killed during several consecutive days of street battles in Bangkok. On Tuesday, protesters and security forces agreed to bring an end to the violence as a show of respect for Thailand's much-revered king, who will celebrate his 86th birthday Thursday.
But protesters refused to give up their week-old occupation of the ministry of finance and a separate government complex on the outskirts of the Thai capital.
Instead, opposition leaders continue to demand the resignation of Yingluck Shinawatra. The democratically-elected prime minister easily survived a no-confidence vote in parliament last week.
"The proposals of the protesters are undemocratic and unconstitutional," said Suranand Vejjajiva, a top aide to Yingluck, in an interview with CNN.
"What they are trying to do is just topple the democratically-elected government, which is totally unacceptable," he said. But Suranand added that the government would do its best to avoid violence.
Avoiding violence
Those orders appeared to be strictly followed at police headquarters on Wednesday.
As demonstrators slowly, deliberately cut through fortifications at the gate, a police commander ordered a line of hundreds of female police officers to replace the rows of helmeted riot police.
The smiling women, who carried baseball hats and wore colorful kerchiefs, were then ordered to clap along with music blaring from the loudspeakers of several trucks manned by protesters. It was clearly an effort to defuse tensions at the gate.
Eventually, a protest leader met with police commanders, who later made a show of waving to the demonstrators.
Meanwhile, protest organizers prevented their crowds from streaming into the grounds of the police compound, even after the main gates were opened.
"We welcome them (the protesters) because we don't want to have any violence today," announced Deputy Police Chief Aumnart Anartram on his own speaker system. "They were a bit impatient so they tried to cut the barbed wire and get into our compound."
Aumnart ordered the female police officers to wave to the demonstrators. They did so, and then marched off in formation, still smiling.
At that point, the demonstrators also loudly and peacefully withdrew.
