The oil spill on the Gulf Coast has states and visitors bureaus working hard to keep the public updated and reassure beach-bound travelers.
Here are some of the latest updates from destinations affected by the oil disaster:
Northwest Florida
Oil has affected sections of Pensacola Beach and Perdido Key beaches, according to the Pensacola Bay Area Convention and Visitors Bureau. Photos from the area showed patches of dark, syruplike oil on the white sand, but local officials said the situation is getting better.
"Our beaches continue to improve hourly as the crews clean up," said Ed Schroeder, director of Visit Pensacola, in a statement on the bureau's website.
On Thursday, yellow tape blocked about a quarter mile of the beach to public access, CNN affiliate WPMI-TV reported. Local officials said the temporary closure was put in place to speed up the cleanup process.
Pensacola Beach is open, but the waters from the Park West recreation area to the area just west of Portofino are closed to all swimming and wading until further notice because of large quantities of emulsified oil in shore waters and along the shoreline, the visitors bureau said.
"The shoreline and water along Santa Rosa Sound on the north side of the island is still clean, clear and open for swimming," according to the bureau's website.
iReport: Share your photos of affected beaches
A no-swimming notice has been issued for Destin Beach because of the presence of "tar chips," according to the website of the Emerald Coast Convention and Visitors Bureau, which represents the destination.
There were no reported oil impacts along beaches of south Walton County on Friday morning, the area's Tourist Development Council said on its website.
The health advisory issued this week for a stretch of beach in the western end of the county has been lifted after two consecutive, clean high-tide cycles, the council said.
Meanwhile, small scattered tar balls and oil patches have affected Panama City Beach, but the beaches are open and the swimming is still safe, the area's visitors bureau website said.
"Our sugary white sand beaches are open for the enjoyment of our guests and, as of now, we are seeing only intermittent impact," according to the bureau.
iReport: A slick trip to Perdido Key
Tar balls, tar patties and tar mousse -- a puddinglike oil-water mixture -- continue to be found in northwest Florida, with the heaviest impacts reported between Escambia and Walton counties, according to Visit Florida, the state's tourism corporation. All of the state's beaches remain open.
Gulf Islands National Seashore
All of the Gulf Islands National Seashore sites, which are in Florida and Mississippi, are open, the National Park Service's website said.
But several spots have been affected by the oil spill.
A health advisory is in effect from Walkover 23 on Pensacola Beach, Florida, to the west tip of Santa Rosa Island including Fort Pickens. This advisory extends to the Perdido Key area, including Johnson Beach.
"Because of significant quantities of oil in the water and coming ashore signage and flags advise visitors to not wade or swim in the water," according to the park.
Gulf Shores and Orange Beach, Alabama
Gulf Shores and Orange Beach have experienced significant oiling, according to the Alabama Gulf Coast Convention and Visitors Bureau.
"The beaches are open and visitors are still welcome to sunbathe and walk the beach, but we strongly suggest they swim in a pool or enjoy our many off-beach activities," the site said.
The Alabama Department of Public Health has issued an advisory against swimming in waters off Gulf Shores, Orange Beach and Fort Morgan, and in bay waters close to Fort Morgan, Bayou St. John, Terry Cove, Cotton Bayou and Old River.
Grand Isle, Louisiana
The oil's biggest impact in Louisiana is on the portion of the coast from the mouth of the Mississippi River extending east, according to a state emergency website.
"Most of the Louisiana Gulf Coast, 70 percent, is unaffected by the oil spill and remains open for commercial and recreational fishing," according to the Cajun Coast Visitors and Convention Bureau website.
Grand Isle has closed its public beach, the site said.
