Pardoned but hardly chastened, ex-President Richard Nixon defended his administration's secrecy and wiretaps in combative testimony before a Watergate grand jury following his resignation, newly released documents reveal.
Archivists released nearly 50,000 pages of records and about 45 minutes of audio recordings Thursday, including hundreds of pages of transcripts of Nixon's June 1975 testimony. Special prosecutors were still trying to document the breadth of the scandal that had driven him from power nearly a year earlier, while Nixon did his best to defend his presidency.
"I mean it is your job, and I want the jury and the special prosecutors to kick the hell out of us for wiretapping and for the Plumbers and the rest, because obviously you may have concluded it is wrong," Nixon is quoted in one of the transcripts.
"But I want to say this: That if as a result of the secret negotiations that we have had we have changed the world, which we have; if as a result, we have saved American lives, which we did in Vietnam by shortening a war -- the secret Cambodian bombings saved at least 10,000 lives, as I have told you; if as a result, we'll have made some progress in reducing the threat of nuclear destruction by arms limitation with the Russians; and if the other choice is to have what we call total openness, with no security whatever, then the United States is finished as a great power. Maybe a lot of people don't care, but I care a great deal. I think all of you care a great deal."
The material includes Nixon's recollection of one of the most unusual moments of his presidency -- a pre-dawn meeting at the Lincoln Memorial with student demonstrators outraged by his 1970 invasion of Cambodia. Nixon said he realized he could not convince them the move was needed to shorten the Vietnam War, but told them he hoped they would "give us a hearing on some other issues where we might agree."
Nixon left office August 9, 1974, as Congress considered whether to impeach him over the Watergate scandal. The debacle began with a bungled burglary of the Democratic National Committee offices by Nixon campaign operatives before the 1972 election.
The investigations that followed led to the exposure of a wide-ranging White House plan to sabotage political opponents, efforts to stop leaks by a White House squad known as the "Plumbers" and Nixon's orders to cover up the effort.
Nixon's successor, Gerald Ford, issued him a blanket pardon about a month after the resignation, foreclosing any prospect that the former president would ever face the prison terms many of his aides served.
Nixon dodged questions about the mysterious 18½-minute gap in his Oval Office tapes that has fascinated historians for more than three decades, telling prosecutors that he "practically blew my stack" when he learned of it. He suggested it happened while his secretary, Rose Mary Woods, was transcribing the tape, but characterized it as an accident.
He mocked others in the White House who suggested other causes as "amateurs" and "clowns." He recounted ordering then-White House Chief of Staff Alexander Haig to "find out how this damn thing happened," then apologized to the grand jurors for swearing.
"I am sorry, I wasn't supposed to use profanity," he said. "You have enough on the tapes."
CNN's Mike M. Ahlers and Bill Mears contributed to this report.
