Kevin-Prince Boateng scored the fastest Serie A hat-trick in 10 years and Mario Yepes grabbed a late winner as AC Milan came back from 3-0 down for a sensational 4-3 victory at Lecce Sunday.
The Rossoneri were 3-0 down at the interval following goals from Guillermo Giacomazzi, a Massimo Oddo  penalty and Carlos Grossmuller.
But Ghana international Boateng came off the bench to spark a remarkable turn around with a 14-minute treble.
Yepes then headed home in the 83rd minute to give Massimiliano Allegri's men an unlikely  victory.
"It was very important that we could win this game, it was unbelievable, we came back, I scored three goals," man-of-the-match Boateng told AFP.
Boateng's effort was the fastest triple in Italy since David Trezeguet scored a 10-minute  hat-trick for Juventus in 2001.
Elsewhere, Udinese went top with a 3-0 victory over newly-promoted Novara.
Captain Antonio Di Natale scored a double and Maurizio Domizzi added the  third as their side opened up a two-point lead over Juventus, who were held to a 2-2 draw by Genoa Saturday.
Milan's city rivals Inter won their second game in a row as Thiago Motta scored the only goal in their 1-0 defeat of Chievo in the San Siro.
In Germany's Bundesliga there was a big upset as leaders Bayern Munich lost 2-1 at Hannover in a bad-tempered game in which both sides ended with 10 men.
Norway striker Mohammed  Abdellaoue and Germany's Christian Pander scored for Hannover to inflict only Bayern's second defeat of the season.
After Abdellaoue converted a 23rd-minute penalty for Hannover, the contest reached a fever pitch with a players from both sides in a mass brawl.
Bayern had defender Jerome Boateng sent off and Pander increased the lead after 50 minutes.
Hannover were also reduced  to 10 men when captain Steven Cherundolo was sent off for a foul on Franck Ribery just after the hour mark.
David Alaba pulled a goal back for the leaders with seven minutes left and Bastian Schweinsteiger hit the post, but the home side hung on.
Defending champions Borussia Dortmund won 5-0 against Cologne Saturday and trail Bayern by three points.
