A group of people surrounded the car of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, one man yelling that he is hungry, as a woman climbed up onto it and sat on the vehicle's roof to speak to the president.
The video of the incident, as Ahmadinejad was being driven in a convertible through the southern coastal city of Bandar-Abbas, was posted Saturday on YouTube and has racked up more than 100,000 views.
Several people in the crowd seem to be supporters of the president wanting to shake his hand.
On his official website, the firebrand president posted photos of other parts of his visit to Hormozgan province, with throngs of smiling people waving flags and reaching out to shake his hand as his entourage throws flower petals.
One photo shows a bandage on the president's right hand.
In the video, the car travels through a street amid other traffic, surrounded by guards, as it comes to a stop and a group surrounds it.
A man begins yelling over and over, "Ahamdinejad, I'm hungry!"
The guards and crowd then chant, "Peace be upon the Prophet Mohammed, the leader's helper has come."
Guards also scream at the crowd, "Get back!"
A woman in a hijab approaches the car. It's not clear what she's saying.
She climbs onto the hood and starts to crawl over the windshield. A man grabs her leg and drags her back down. But she pulls away from him, waving her hand, sits down on the bit of roof that covers the driver's section of the car and begins to speak to Ahamdinejad.
The president, who is standing up throughout the video, speaks with her and says something to the people behind him in the car. The woman then goes to the back of the car, and the vehicle continues down the road.
The description with the YouTube video says it was taken by a local. It was posted online by someone who lists little identifying information. Australia is listed as the YouTube user's country.
The description says Ahmadinejad ignored the man who was shouting about being hungry.
CNN's Ash Gallagher and Shirzad Bozorgmehr contributed to this report.
