Rory McIlroy and Billy Horschel are in pole position to pocket the PGA Tour's FedEx Cup $10 million jackpot after finishing the third round tied for the lead at the season finale Tour Championship.
The 27-year-old American and the world No. 1 are two of five players in the 29-strong field who can claim the $10 million prize for topping the FedEx Cup playoff series by winning the season's final event at Atlanta's East Lake Golf Club.
McIlroy began the day two shots behind Horschel but a three-under par 67, compared to the American's 69, ensured the Northern Irishman drew level at nine-under par after 54 holes.
After Friday's heroics, where McIlroy fired a tee shot into a spectator's trouser pocket on his way to a five-under 65, Saturday was shaping up to be equally eventful.
A birdie, bogey, birdie start hinted at another day of high drama and low scoring before things settled down with a run of five pars.
That sequence was broken with a birdie at the ninth followed by a bogey at 10 before an eagle three at the par five 15th saw McIlroy finally reel in his playing partner.
"I haven't really played the par fives well all week ... it was a big turning point as it tied me for the lead," McIlroy told Sky Sports.
An errant tee shot at the par three 18th threatened to take the gloss off another polished display, but the ever-assured McIlroy made a tricky up-and-down from thick, greenside rough look simple.
"I've felt a little weary and in no way have I played my best golf, but I'm tied for the lead and I can't ask for any more," McIlroy said.
Earlier, three front-nine birdies had seen Horschel extend his overnight lead to three shots but two bogeys at 10 and 13, coupled with McIlroy's eagle, saw his advantage disappear.
Jim Furyk is by no means out of contention to win the tournament after a 67 left him two shots adrift of the joint-leaders while Ricky Fowler, England's Justin Rose and Australia's Jason Day are all one shot further back on six under.
Of the remaining three players who can claim the FedEx jackpot with a win on Sunday no matter where other players finish, Chris Kirk, joint-leader with Horschel after round one, is in closest contention.
The Atlanta native is five under after three rounds while Bubba Watson is three-under par. Hunter Mahan, however, will not be banking a $10m check come Monday morning -- the 32-year-old is seven-over par for his three rounds.
Read more: Horschel chooses golf over baby's birth
