Roger Federer recorded a resounding 6-4 6-2 win over Britain's Andy Murray in their Group B match at the ATP World Tour Finals at the O2 Arena in London on Tuesday.
Federer wasted little time in exploiting a misfiring Murray, breaking his second service game to love to establish an early 3-1 lead. He never looked back, holding his serve with ease, while continuing to make Murray work for his.
Murray sniffed a chance to break back when Federer was serving for the set, taking the first two points of the game.
But the 29-year-old regained his composure winning four points on the bounce to take the opening set 6-4.
The second set started in the same fashion. Murray working hard just to hold his serve, and a back and forth opening game eventually went Federer's way.
Becker backs Federer to be year-end champ
The Swiss, in contrast, continued to hold his service with ease and when Murray went two breaks down to trail 0-3, there was no way back.
The 23-year-old avoided the humiliation of a second set whitewash, scrapping his way to two service games.
But it only delayed the inevitable as Federer, a four-time winner of the event, closed out the match in style to go top of Group B.
Federer, who now has a 6-8 head-to-head record against Murray, admitted his surprise at the margin of victory.
"Andy has beaten me the last few times so I'm surprised how clean the score was today, but I don't think Andy played his best match, that is for sure," Federer told BBC Sport.
Murray will likely have to beat David Ferrer in his final group match on Thursday if he is to progress to the semi-finals stage.
"I did the two most important things in tennis very poorly today, which is serve and return. Against someone as good as Roger, you can't do them badly. You're not going to win the match and that's why the score line was like it was," Murray told BBC Sport.
Meanwhile, in the evening match, Robin Soderling won a hard fought straight sets victory over David Ferrer, 7-5 7-5.
The first set seemed destined to go to a tie-break as both men held serve for the first 11 eleven games, but Soderling gained the crucial break in the 12th.
A curling forehand winner closed out the set for the Swede after 48 minutes.
The second set was heading the way of the first it seemed as Soderling and then Ferrer continued to hold serve.
Despite some spirited defence from the Spaniard in the fifth game, Soderling prevailed to take a 4-2 lead, which quickly became 5-2.
With defeat and an early exit from the competition looming, Ferrer burst into life winning the next three games to draw level.
But Soderling regained his form while Ferrer's waned and the Swede completed his first win at this year's event.
"I played well last year and I've enjoyed coming back. I'm very relieved. It was tough. I served very well but I have a few things I need to improve," Soderling told BBC Sport after the match.
The Swede faces Federer on Thursday while Ferrer will play Andy Murray.
