(CNN Student News) -- November 25, 2013
A preliminary agreement involving Iran's controversial nuclear program could signal the end of decades of diplomatic gridlock. On Monday, CNN Student News reports on the details of the deal and some vastly different reactions to it. We also discuss the potential impact of winter weather on Thanksgiving travel. And we meet a teen who's planning for an upcoming hospital stay by thinking of her fellow patients.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Do weather forecasts have an impact on people's holiday travel plans? If so, to what extent? If not, why not?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. world power
2. forecaster
3. Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is known about a deal over Iran's nuclear program? What have been some reactions to this deal?
2. How has a winter storm system impacted parts of the United States ahead of Thanksgiving? What is this system expected to do?
3. What has the FCC proposed with regard to cell phone use on airplanes?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you think might be the potential outcomes of a nuclear deal between Iran and six other countries? Why do you think different countries have vastly different opinions on this agreement?
2. What are some arguments for and against an FCC proposal to allow cell phone calls during flights? Do you think that the flying experience will change if this proposal is passed? If so, how? If not, why not? Do you think passengers should be allowed to make calls during flights? Why or why not?
3. What needs might hospital patients have over the holidays? What are your thoughts about what brain surgery patient Savannah Day is doing for other hospital patients? How might her story inspire others?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Iran
North America
Virginia; Cincinnati, Ohio
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
