An EMT worker who was involved in a controversial incident in which a pregnant woman died last year was shot and killed Sunday, New York police said.
Authorities said they had no immediate link between the EMT's shooting and the widely publicized case last year but that would be an aspect of their investigation.
"That part of the case will be investigated by NYPD. We will be in touch  with Manhattan detectives who will be investigating the murder (of the EMT)," Brooklyn District Attorney spokesman Jerry Schmetterer.
The case involving the EMT -- Jason Green -- and a pregnant woman occurred in Brooklyn last December 9.
The woman, Eutisha Rennix, was working as a waitress at a cafe when she collapsed. Rennix's coworkers said Green and a fellow EMT were in the cafe when Rennix collapsed but  the two EMTs reportedly told the co-workers to call 911 and left the cafe without aiding the stricken woman.
Rennix later died at a hospital.
A spokesman for the EMT and paramedics union said after the incident that Green and his colleague were medical dispatchers and that they did not work with patients. The spokesman added that Green's colleague made a 911 emergency call herself in an effort to get help for the stricken woman.
Following the incident, the fire department suspended the two EMTs  without pay for but were reinstated shortly thereafter, EMT spokesman  Robert Ungar said Sunday.
"He (Green) was an EMT with the  emergency medical services bureau of the fire department for seven  years. He was working as a dispatcher and was back on duty at the time  of his death (Sunday). At the time of the previous investigation, the law only  provides for suspension of workers up to 30 days." Ungar said.
Green, 31, was shot outside a downtown Manhattan nightclub at about 5 a.m. Sunday. Police said that Green was shot once in the face and was pronounced dead at a hospital.
No arrests had been made as of Sunday afternoon, and NYPD homicide Detective Richard Tireli said that "the investigation is ongoing."
Meanwhile Brooklyn authorities said Sunday their investigation into Rennix's death was continuing.
"Our involvement is with the incident at the cafe and it's currently still open. The investigation was if there was any criminality involved and if they have violated any criminal laws ... The case is nearing completion and every angle will be investigated." Schmetterer of the Brooklyn district attorney's office said.
