A Colorado school has caused a stir with an advisory that suggested women could urinate or vomit to deter a rape.
The list of 10 tips by the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs was billed as "last resort" options to deter a sexual assault.
"Tell your attacker that you have a disease or are menstruating," read one tip.
"Vomiting or urinating may also convince the attacker to leave you alone," read another.
By Tuesday night, the list was taken down and replaced by an explanation and an apology. But it was too late.
The backlash had hit the Internet, and a hashtag on Twitter was created.
Conservative blogger Michelle Malkin was one of many who criticized the eyebrow-raising list using the hashtag #UCCSTips.
"New #UCCSTips for women: If vomiting or urinating doesn't deter your attacker, try passing gas," Malkin tweeted.
"#UCCSTips or if all else fails, ask attacker to pull your finger!" Jason Griggs  tweeted.
Police: Man raped woman he met on Christian dating website
Some women on the Colorado campus said they were confused by the list.
"Tell your attacker you have a disease or menstruating? I don't understand how that will keep someone from attacking you," student Leah McFann told CNN affiliate KRDO.
Some on campus also wondered why the list did not emphasize more conventional ways of fighting back.
Tom Hutton, a spokesman for the university, said the list had been taken out of context.
"It was part of supplemental information intended for women who had completed a self-defense class on campus," Hutton told KRDO.
Gang rape victim fights back for girls' education
Hutton said the list was created in 2006 but may have resurfaced because the issue of rape on campus had been in the news recently in Colorado.
Last week, Colorado lawmakers debated legislation that would ban firearms in college campus buildings. The debate made headlines after Democratic State Rep. Joe Salazar made controversial statements about ways to protect women on campuses.
"Because you just don't know who you are going to be shooting at," Salazar said last week. "If you feel like you're going to be raped or if you feel like someone's been following you around or if you feel like you're in trouble and when you may actually not be -- that you pop out that gun and you pop-pop a round at somebody. And you might have just made a mistake."
Salazar later apologized for the comment.
Amanpour: Fighting rape in South Africa's 'broken system'
