Solange Knowles has always been independent.
Just ask her big sister, Beyonce, who told the New York Times back in 2012, "My sister will not record with me. She's her own woman."
After years of carving her own niche in fashion and music, Knowles, 28, has once again stepped out of the limelight around her more famous sibling: Her wedding over the weekend set the Internet a-Twitter. The singer married longtime love, music video director Alan Ferguson, 51, on Sunday in her adopted city of New Orleans.
And by it being the big day for the woman who has blogged about her fashion for the likes of Vogue, it wasn't your average celebrity nuptials. Here are five ways Knowles broke wedding traditions with style.
Everyone wore white
Why should the bride have all the fun?
Everyone wore white or some variation and it was a really good look. All white wedding themes are gathering steam these days -- just check out Pinterest. Friend and Destiny's Child member Kelly Rowland stuck to a similar theme at her recent ceremony, when her wedding party donned all white.
Who says it's bad luck to see the groom before the ceremony?
Not only did Solange see Ferguson, who has directed videos for artists including his new sister-in-law and Katy Perry, but the pair rode vintage, white bikes on the streets of the French Quarter to get to their wedding ceremony which was held at the Marigny Opera House.
It was pretty adorable.
She wore a wedding pantsuit
The bride arrived for her wedding sporting a low-cut, cream-colored jumpsuit with a cape by designer Stephane Rolland. Her wedding portrait shows her in an elegant and high-necked Humberto Leon for Kenzo gown with a floor-length cape. It was classy and modest.
What bridesmaids dresses?
If her wedding pic is any indication, everyone wore what they wanted.
Instead of a traditional wedding party shot, Knowles commissioned an all-female portrait which shows women -- including sister Beyonce, mother Tina Knowles and singer friend Janelle Monae -- all wearing various designs in white.
She's a celebrity who didn't have a celebrity wedding
Sure, major celebrities were there. Beyonce and Jay Z alone are major star power. But Knowles kept it simple and fun for the event, which was attended by about 200 guests.
According to People, the couple had an intimate pre-wedding party at the Indywood Cinema and their wedding was followed by a traditional second line on the streets of New Orleans. It was a second marriage for Knowles, who was earlier married to former college football player Daniel Smith, who is father of their son Daniel Julez, 10.
"Everyone I worked with on the wedding are friends who I love," Knowles told Vogue. "Everything was a labor of love."
