A Chris Brown song called "Not My Fault" was recorded three years ago and is not about Rihanna, its producers said.
Chris Brown pleaded guilty in an assault case regarding his ex-girlfriend Rihanna.
The music appeared online Tuesday, a day after the singer admitted guilt to assaulting Rihanna, his former girlfriend.
Brown's record label also said the music was not "new."
Although Brown accepted a plea deal in which he could avoid jail time, any appearance that he is not remorseful could be damaging, since the judge is not bound by those terms when she sentences him in August.
The song, which appeared on YouTube, includes the line "It's not my fault, right?"
The publicist for the Neptunes, a music producing duo that has worked in the studio with Brown, said the music was a demo recorded three years ago. She said they do not know how the song made its way onto YouTube.
Jive Records, which distributes Brown's music, said "there are no 'new' songs from Chris Brown currently being promoted by Chris or his record label."
"There are several old demos circulating that are being falsely promoted as new material from Chris," a Jive Records statement said.
In the song, Brown sings:
"I picked up the paper and the headline reads, it says 'singer brokenhearted in some satin sheets.' And I'm like, why? We had a hell of a time."
"When I first met you, I told ya that you'll be safe. In the midst of arguing something, falls to the floor and breaks. You look down and see what you dropped, oh, it's your heart."
"Shortie's caught up from a long night. She's ready to fall but she's all right. That's just something that can happen when you put it down. She's caught up, it's not my fault, right."
"You see, her mama called me, really steamed. She said 'My daughter won't eat and she don't sleep. She just cries.' "
Brown was arrested in connection with an altercation that began with an argument with Rihanna inside a rented Lamborghini on a Hollywood street in February.
Prosecutors agreed to recommend five years of probation and 180 days of community service for Brown in exchange for his guilty plea on one count of assault with the intent of doing great bodily injury.
