Justin Bieber's defense team now includes Lady Gaga and Ariana Grande.
Both singers stood up for the 19-year-old pop star as he was being hammered on Twitter and TV after his DUI arrest Thursday, encouraging their fans to show some compassion and support.
"Everyone is entitled to their own opinion, and to stand up for themselves, but I think we should be supportive of Beliebers," Gaga told her Little Monsters -- aka her fans -- in a post on her website Thursday.
"We may not understand everything celebrities do because there's only so much we see, but Justin and Beliebers were 'born this way' too. Let's spread love and compassion to Beliebers today. That is what we are all about."
Ellen DeGeneres, who once had Bieber on her show to surprise him with a car as a birthday gift, sounded genuine when she tweeted she hopes the star will be able to mature without injury.
Nickelodeon star Grande, who spent some time on tour with Bieber and shares a manager with the pop star, Scooter Braun, didn't directly address Bieber by name, but the timing of her reaction on Twitter spoke volumes.
Meanwhile, other stars such as Seth Rogen and Jason Biggs had decidedly less kind reactions to the news that Bieber had been pulled over while drag racing in Miami Beach, Florida, and then arrested on charges of drunken driving, resisting arrest and driving without a valid license.
"All jokes aside, Justin Bieber is a piece of s***," Rogen tweeted. Biggs joked, "50 in a 30. Jesus, Bieber even drag races like a p****."
"Supernatural" actor Jared Padalecki said, "Just saw the mugshot of @justinbieber. I gotta admit, she's kinda hot without all of her usual makeup on."
Over on late night, Bieber was the top joke on both "Jimmy Kimmel Live" and "Late Night With Jimmy Fallon."
Kimmel poked fun at Bieber's transformation from teeny-bopper to apparent troublemaker.
He also joked about the outcry from distraught Beliebers who were depressed that criminals in Florida got to meet their idol before they did.
On "Late Night," Fallon skewered Bieber's mug shot, saying that he mistook it for a commercial for Proactiv, an acne treatment product.
But according to Bieber's manager, Braun, and his friend Lil Za, the singer's arrest is no laughing matter.
"He's fine," Lil Za posted Thursday afternoon. "Nobody's happy. nobody thinks it's a joke."
"Been a long day. Bottom line is we are defined by how we handle adversity. Be there when it counts. Love fully in good times and bad," Braun added. "(Bieber) love you and i will act in the manner of someone who truly cares. that is all I have to say. thanks for all those concerned."
If all else fails and the arrest brings Bieber's career to a halt, at least he has Vanilla Ice in his corner. The former rap artist has offered Bieber a job.
