(CNN Student News) -- April 7, 2014
Elections in Afghanistan and India headline our Monday edition of CNN Student News. We also report on a possible new lead in the search for a missing passenger plane, and we cover the costs of such a tremendous search effort. And in the month of the Bard's 450th birthday, we show you how a version of King Lear is helping a group of Syrian refugees.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What do you think is the difference between "hard news" and a "feature story"? Do you think that news programming should include more of one or the other? Explain.
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. democracy
2. federal republic
3. William Shakespeare
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Describe the level of voter turnout for Afghanistan's national elections. What does one member of the Afghan parliament featured in the video say about election day? Who has threatened the elections with violence? What did Afghan officials do to promote security at the polls?
2. What country is sometimes called the world's largest democracy? What is unique about the elections being held there today? What kind of government does this country have? How does it rank among other countries in terms of population? According to the video, what issues are important there in this year's elections?
3. How does the cost of the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 compare to that of previous missing airplanes? Where is the money coming from? How many nations are currently involved in the search? Which "big seven" nations are leading the search? According to the video, about how much is the search costing per month?
4. How many plays did William Shakespeare write? How long ago did he live? How are people around the world celebrating? What is unusual about the performance of King Lear shown in the video? Where do these children live? What play did they perform? According to the video, what themes in this play may be especially relevant to the refugee children? What Syrian city is mentioned in two Shakespeare plays?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that many Afghan voters stood in long lines in the rain and endured threats of violence in order to cast their votes? What does the right to vote mean to you? If you were in their position, do you think you would endure long waits and threats of violence in order to cast your ballot? Why or why not?
2. What is your opinion of the cost of the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370?
3. Have you ever read any of Shakespeare's plays? If so, which ones? What are some of the themes found in his plays? Why do you think that the young Syrians in the refugee camp chose to perform King Lear? Why do you think that Shakespeare's works are still studied and performed more than 400 years after he wrote them? In your opinion, what characteristics enable some literary works to withstand the test of time?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
