(CNN)The Tiger will be back on the prowl in 2015 -- and that's according to the man himself.
Tiger Woods says it is an "incredible relief" to be over his injury problems and is now concentrating on adding to his 14 major titles next year.
Woods, who turns 39 on December 30, failed to make the cut at the U.S. PGA in August after struggling to retain full fitness following surgery on a pinched nerve in his back earlier in the year.
The U.S. star made a return to action earlier in December at the Hero World Challenge, the tournament he hosts every year at his home course of Isleworth in Florida.
But the former World No.1 was unable to finish after being physically ill during his third round, leaving him joint last.
Writing on his end of year blog, Woods said: "I'm mostly excited about being healthy again. I've struggled for the past year-and-half with my back, and it showed in my results.
"Even though I won five times two years ago, it was hit or miss some weeks and got progressively worse. Now that it feels healthy, strong and stable, it's fun to be able to play with my kids again, to play soccer and run around with them, shoot hoops ... things that I used to do and took for granted.
"For anybody who has ever had a bad back with nerve damage, it's downright debilitating. To not feel that is finally just incredible relief."
Woods, who won the last of his major titles in 2008, will spend the holiday season with his children and partner, Lindsey Vonn.
Ski star Vonn, who missed out on equaling the all-time record for the number of World Cup race wins last weekend, has had injury problems of her own.
Vonn was forced to undergo knee surgery earlier this year and missed out on defending her Olympic downhill crown at the Sochi Olympics.
Speaking to CNN earlier this year, Vonn revealed how Woods had played a key role in helping her through a difficult time when he too was struggling for fitness.
"Tiger and I both went through rehab with our injuries at a similar time, so we were both in the gym together and pushing each other and motivating each other, both frustrated," Vonn told CNN's Alpine Edge last month.
"I think we both helped each other a lot through that time, and I drew a lot of inspiration from him and I think he does the same with me.
"We continue to push each other and it's a really positive relationship in that way."
