A trial against six environmental activists accused of conspiring to shut down a power station in the UK has collapsed amid questions over the role of an undercover police officer in infiltrating the group.
The six were among 114 people originally arrested in a police raid at a school in Nottingham, central England, in April 2009. The protesters planned to trespass and shut down a coal-fired power station at Ratcliffe-on-Soar, Nottingham Crown Court heard.
Twenty protesters received suspended sentences and conditional discharges earlier this month after they were convicted of conspiracy to commit aggravated trespass at the power station.
But a spokesperson for the Crown Prosecution Service said in a statement that information which had "significantly undermined the prosecution's case" against the six had come to light on January 5.
"In light of this information, the Crown Prosecution Service reviewed the case and decided there was no longer sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction. We offered no evidence at a hearing this morning, thereby discontinuing the case."
Defense lawyer Mike Schwarz said he believed the prosecution's actions were influenced by defense plans to disclose material relating to the discovery that one of those arrested in the raid had been undercover police officer called Mark Kennedy, known to the protesters as Mark Stone.
"My clients were not guilty. They did not agree to join in any plan to occupy the power station. The evidence of PC Kennedy presumably confirmed this," Schwarz said in a statement. "Yet that evidence, had it been kept secret, could have led to a miscarriage of justice."
Danny Chivers, one of the six defendants, questioned police motives for the raid, telling CNN: "This investigation was not in the public interest. It was political policing -- we had done nothing wrong."
Bradley Day, one of the activists involved in plans to protest at the power station, told CNN that Kennedy had played a "key role in organizing the action," including taking part in a recce to the power station. He also offered to pay more than £700 ($1,090) for the cost of a rental vehicle, he said.
But most of those at the school had not been aware of the plan prior to that evening's meeting and so had not actively committed to any illegal action, he said.
Day said defense lawyers had become aware of Kennedy's role as an undercover police officer while researching the backgrounds of all 114 who had been initially arrested.
In an anonymous statement forwarded to CNN by Chivers, one of the defendants said they had known "Mark Stone" for five or six years and "liked and trusted him."
"Mark was at the meeting for the Ratcliffe action in the late afternoon/early evening of 13/04/09 (so he knew the plan in detail)," the statement said. The defendant said the pair planned to suspend themselves in a hanging climbing tent beneath the power station's coal conveyer.
"We were going to climb together and I think he was also driving one of the vehicles," the statement continued.
After their release from police custody, the defendant said he had slept the night on Mark Stone's sitting room floor: "I remember being awake at about eight the next morning and seeing Mark sitting at the bottom of the stairs with his head in his hands. I assumed that this was him being upset about the arrest rather than anything more complicated."
Schwarz said the case raised "serious questions relating to the policing of protest, from the use of undercover officers, to the use of expensive and legally questionable mass pre-emptive arrest of protesters, to the use of stringent and unaccountable pre-charge police bail conditions, to the seemingly arbitrary nature by which the 114 initially arrested were reduced to the final 26 who were eventually charged."
CNN's Geoff Hill, Antonia Mortensen and Laura Perez Maestro contributed to this story.
