The teen who mysteriously turned up in New York with apparent amnesia emptied her bank account and left behind "everything" before she left her home in Washington, police told CNN.
The woman, now identified as Kacie Aleece Peterson, 18, of Hansville, Washington, withdrew about $400 from her Bank of America account, said Scott Wilson, spokesman for the Kitsap County Sheriff's Office in Washington.
But Peterson "left everything," including her wallet, identification, cell phone, clothes and even her bike, which was secured outside a Wal-Mart, Wilson said.
Police still do not know how Peterson traveled cross-country to New York City.
The woman mysteriously turned up in Manhattan two weeks ago, claiming to have no memory of her family, her home -- or even her own name.
There's no indication that she's feigning her memory loss, said Paul Browne, deputy commissioner of the New York Police Department.
At the same time, because Peterson is an adult, authorities have not ruled out the theory that she left home to re-establish herself elsewhere, Wilson said.
The teen's father, Henry Peterson of Colville, Washington, told Kitsap County authorities his daughter had occasional memory lapses, Wilson said.
In May, Kacie Peterson was found lying on the ground next to a creek at the family farm, Wilson said. She had blacked out and did not remember who she was, he said. Kacie Peterson was briefly hospitalized after the incident, he said.
Her father also told investigators that in another incident his daughter was found unconscious on her bedroom floor, Wilson said.
Henry Peterson reported his daughter missing on October 2, Wilson said, after the family friend she lived with told him that the last time she saw Kacie Peterson was September 30. Kacie Peterson moved in June from eastern Washington with her father to western Washington to live with a friend of her mother, who died when she was 7, Wilson said. Henry Peterson told police he agreed to the transition, Wilson said.
The teen's father described their relationship as "difficult" and "that he had put too much pressure on his daughter to do well and get good grades," Wilson said.
Kacie Peterson, a high school senior, started anew at Kingston High School in Kingston, Washington, but only attended for three weeks, said Chris Case, director of community relations for North Kitsap school district. Enrolled in the Running Start program there, Kacie Peterson had two advanced placement classes at the school and also classes at Olympic College in Poulsbo, about 10 miles away, Case said.
Kingston high school officials said Kacie Peterson was quiet, shy and that "she had no friends," Wilson said.
The last time she showed up for class was on September 29, Case said.
The next time some employees of the school saw the student she was sporting a new look.
"The school here is telling me she had long hair past her shoulders," Case said. In the photo New York police showed of the teen during their investigation to identify her, Kacie Peterson had hair that looked only about a couple of inches long on top and tapered low on the sides.
Police asked for help identifying the teen after she was found in midtown Manhattan around 12:30 a.m. on October 9 outside the Covenant House youth shelter. The organization had said she was not a resident at the time and did not appear as if she intended to seek refuge at the facility.
A security guard for the shelter noticed her walking around on the sidewalk near Covenant House and approached her. Finding her unresponsive, he called police.
Officers interviewed her, but it became clear that she couldn't provide authorities with any information about herself.
A photo of the then-unidentified woman aired on CNN, and a viewer in Maryland who was familiar with Kacie Peterson alerted authorities. Police established a positive identification.
Police say they do not know how she lost her memory.
She is still in New York and receiving care from the city agency, Browne said.
CNN's Susan Candiotti, Khadijah Rentas, Erica Hill and Melanie Whitley contributed to this report.
