Brooke Mueller has reconsidered her decision to undergo at-home drug rehab. Instead, Charlie Sheen's ex-wife has checked into an in-patient treatment center, her spokesman said Tuesday.
Mueller was arrested in Aspen, Colorado, on December 3 and charged with assault and cocaine possession, police said.
Mueller's publicist told CNN Monday that she would "take a different approach to deal with her addiction" with a daytime rehab program and around-the-clock supervision at home.
"After further reflection and consideration, Brooke has decided to remove herself from the media spotlight and has entered a long-term in-patient treatment center where she can focus on her recovery without distraction," spokesman Steve Honig said Tuesday.
Mueller, 34, checked into the rehab facility before the announcement was made, he said.
"Brooke's goal is to maintain her sobriety and she believes this is the best option to reach that goal," Honig said.
The 2-year-old twin sons she shares with Sheen "will remain in their home and familiar surroundings and be under the care of their longtime nanny," he said.
"Charlie and Brooke's parents fully support her decision and everyone recognizes the importance of maintaining the children's normal routine," he said.
The incidents in Aspen began when a woman at the Belly Up -- a bar and performance venue there -- complained that Mueller had been "the aggressor" in an assault, Aspen police said.
Mueller was found and arrested after midnight at another bar, Escobar, police said. She was charged with possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, which is a felony, and third-degree assault, which is a misdemeanor.
She was released after posting an $11,000 bond, Aspen police said. A court date is scheduled for Monday.
Mueller has appeared as an actress in several movies, including 2004's "A Love Song for Bobby Long," according to IMDb. But she is more widely known as the ex-wife of Sheen.
The twin sons and Mueller were part of Sheen's volatile public fall-out with CBS earlier this year as he left his starring role on the network's "Two and Half Men."
She claimed in March that he'd threatened to kill her, saying, "I will cut your head off, put it in a box and send it to your mom," according to a declaration made in a restraining order against Sheen. The revelations led to a court order removing the 2-year-old boys from Sheen's home.
The actor called the allegation "colorful" and described the quote attributed to him as fabricated in an interview with NBC's "Today Show."
Mueller has sought help for substance abuse and stress-related issues in the past.
Last December, her attorney, Yale Galanter, said that she entered a sober living facility. Earlier, in April 2010, Mueller had checked into a treatment facility for help with stress management to prevent a "return to old problems," her representative said.
She was in substance abuse rehab earlier in 2010 "to get her health in order," Galanter said at the time.
The couple was involved in an alleged domestic dispute in Aspen on Christmas Day 2009 that resulted in felony charges against Sheen.
CNN's Jack Hannah contributed to this report.
