Glenn Beck may not want to vote for Hillary Clinton, but he is convinced that she will win the presidency in 2016.
Beck, the conservative radio and television host, used part of his radio show on Tuesday to talk about the prospect of Clinton running for president and why, if she does, she "will be the next president of the United States."
"She is going to win," Beck said, matter-of-factly, because Clinton will convince voters that she is the candidate that can take the United States back to "the golden years" of Bill Clinton's administration.
Beck said, "Here's what Hillary is going to do. [She will say] 'Do you remember when America was good? Do you remember when we had jobs and we were building towards a brighter future, and things were really happening? Clinton administration, we had it under control. Things were good, and they weren't great, we're going to do better. We're going to replant our flag in the traditional things that you understand.'"
Labor's Trumka: Hillary Clinton is 'very, very qualified to be president'
Beck also knocked Republicans, telling viewers that the party will be unable to combat this message.
"We can talk about Ronald Reagan all we want, [but] nobody remembers Ronald Reagan. It was too long ago," Beck said. "The Clinton years are the golden years."
Howard Dean: I hope Hillary Clinton becomes president
Beck added: "While we [Republicans] are talking about technicalities and the past, they are going to be talking about a past that was brightly remembered and they will talk about the America we will become. She will win."
Democrat Jim Webb has doubts about Clinton's record
Hillary Clinton has yet to say whether she will run for president in 2016, but she has admitted that she is thinking about it. Clinton has crisscrossed the country on a book tour this summer and stoked the presidential flames throughout most of the tour.
Republicans have kept their focus on Clinton, and they've argued that if the former secretary of state runs, she will become President Barack Obama's third term, not Bill Clinton's.
Even some close to Clinton have quietly expressed concern that one of the most effective critiques could be that her presidency, should she run and be elected, would be nothing more than President Barack Obama's third term.
One Clinton friend and former aide told CNN in August that the best way to go after Clinton is to use this against her: "If you like Obama, you will love Hillary."
Romney: Clinton won't be able to distance herself from Obama
Rand Paul: Hillary Clinton would 'have been fired' working for husband
