Chelsea's attempt to make FA Cup history came to a halt on Saturday when the holders were eliminated from England's top knockout competition in a penalty shootout by Premier League rivals Everton.
The London club, seeking to become the first to win the trophy three years in a row, were held 1-1 at home in the fourth-round replay despite going ahead in extra-time through England midfielder Frank Lampard.
Leighton Baines forced the spot-kick showdown with a superb left-footed set-piece a minute from the end, but the defender looked to have handed Chelsea the advantage when Petr Cech saved his penalty.
However, American goalkeeper Tim Howard kept out an effort by French striker Nicolas Anelka and then England defender Ashley Cole blazed his attempt over the crossbar, giving captain Phil Neville the chance to make it 4-3 and seal a last-16 clash with division two Reading on March 1.
It was a big blow for Chelsea boss Carlo Ancelotti ahead of Tuesday's Champions League first-leg, last-16 tie away to Denmark's Copenhagen.
"We deserved to win. Obviously we are not happy, but we have to look forward, to use these days, the next days, to recover well, to recover energy and to prepare well," the Italian told reporters after his side's first home defeat against Everton since 1994.
A historic first victory in Europe's top club competition seems like Chelsea's only real hopes of winning a trophy this season, with the Blues languishing in fifth place in their Premier League defense.
Cup magic shared by cross-channel minnows
League leaders Manchester United were made to battle against non-league part-timers Crawley Town before reaching the last eight with a 1-0 home victory on Saturday.
Wes Brown scored the only goal in the 28th minute, his first since 2008, as he headed home a well-worked short corner by Darron Gibson.
The defender also made a vital late block on an attempted overhead kick by Matthew Tubbs as Crawley kept fighting for an equalizer and an unexpected replay, with striker Richard Brodie heading against the United bar in time added on.
United boss Alex Ferguson started the match with several non-regulars, but brought star striker Wayne Rooney off the bench in the second half.
Earlier, Premier League teams Stoke and Birmingham moved into the quarterfinals with 3-0 victories over third division Brighton and Sheffield Wednesday respectively.
Stoke went through with first-half goals from strikers John Carew and Jon Walters and defender Ryan Shawcross.
Chile winger Jean Beausejour and Obafemi Martins netted inside 20 minutes for Birmingham, the latter his first for the club since the Nigeria striker joined on loan last month, while defender David Murphy wrapped it up eight minutes after halftime.
On Sunday, Manchester City host Notts County in a fourth-round replay, while in fifth-round matches Arsenal travel to another division three team Leyton Orient and Fulham take on Premier League rivals Bolton.
