Make the most of "the world's most livable city" with these insider tips.
Trump card The Copenhagen Card entitles you to free use of the city's train, bus and metro systems, as well as free admission to 60 museums and attractions. There are two versions, valid for either for either 24 hours (199 DKR) or 72 hours (429 DKR), which you can buy at tourist offices, train stations and some hotels (www.copenhagencard.com).
Louisiana Museum of Modern Art is well worth the journey.
Louisiana Museum of Modern Art Make your way some 40km north of the city to this fascinating museum -- it's well worth the effort. Set in a beautiful sculpture park in the coastal village of Humlebaek, Louisiana is a beguiling combination of nature, architecture and contemporary art (www.louisiana.dk/dk).
On the up Check out the district of Nørrebro for a taste of the 'other side' of Copenhagen. Slightly grungy, defiantly hip and definitely up-and-coming, this area has had its share of social problems, but it also has an undeniable energy and is increasingly popular with Copenhagen's young-and-trendy set.
Pass the Post The Copenhagen Post is a weekly English-language paper, available from train stations and newsstands. It comes with the 16-page "In & Out Guide," which has complete entertainment listings and is worth the cover price by itself.
Route canal Take a load off and let a canal boat take the strain as it meanders through Copenhagen's waterways. DFDS Canal Tours offers one-hour guided tours from Nyhaven and Gammel Strand, as well as a water bus service that allows you to board and disembark at any of its 16 stops (www.canaltours.com/DCT/EN).
Free museums Two of the city's finest cultural treasures, the Statens Museum for Kunst (National Gallery) and The National Museum don't charge for admission. A number of Copenhagen's museums and galleries offer free entry on Wednesdays, including the excellent Ny Carlsberg Glyptoteket.
..................................
What are your tips for a great stay in Copenhagen? Where have you found the "real" Copenhagen? Send us your suggestions in the "Sound Off" box below and we'll print the best.
