Real Madrid will face arch-rivals Barcelona in the final of the Spanish Cup after both teams won the second legs of their semifinals on Wednesday.
Barcelona progressed first with a 3-0 win at struggling Almeria which sealed an 8-0 aggregate victory to surpass Athletic Bilbao's 34 final appearances.
Real then knocked out defending champions Sevilla with a 2-0 home win to extend their record to 37 finals, having taken a 1-0 advantage into the match.
Coach Jose Mourinho has the chance to end Real's 17-year trophy drought in the Copa del Rey as Madrid face Barca twice in the space of a week in April.
The final on April 20 comes just three days after the second scheduled La Liga "Clasico" between the two teams this season at the Santiago Bernabeu.
Vote for the best clubs in the world in new CNN poll
Real went down 5-0 in the first meeting at the Camp Nou on November 29, and trail Barcelona by seven points in the league after Sunday's defeat by Osasuna.
But Mourinho's men bounced back to beat 10-man Sevilla with second-half goals from Mesut Ozil and new signing Emmanuel Adebayor.
Real winger Angel Di Maria hit the post in the fifth minute, but Ozil finally broke the deadlock with eight to play as he rounded goalkeeper Jari Varas after a defense-splitting pass from fellow Germany midfielder Sami Khedira.
Sevilla had defender Sergio Sanchez sent off soon after for his second booking after a challenge on substitute Adebayor, who marked his home debut with a goal in the fourth minute of time added on.
'Cocky' Ronaldo ridiculed by 'the Rifle'
The Togo international, signed on loan until the end of this season from English club Manchester City, controlled a cross from fellow replacement Lassana Diarra on his chest and smashed a volley into the net.
While Real can boast 17 cup wins and 19 runner-up finishes, Barcelona will be seeking to extend the Catalan club's record of 25 triumphs, with the last coming in 2009 against Bilbao.
With key players such as Lionel Messi, Andres Iniesta, Xavi, Gerard Pique and Pedro Rodriguez all rested at Almeria, Barca still cruised with goals from Adriano, Thiago Alcantara and Ibrahim Afellay.
Brazilian defender Adriano scored his first goal for the club in the 34th minute after cutting in from the left flank to slot home, while 10 minutes after halftime 19-year-old Thiago headed in a cross from the right by Dani Alves.
Dutch midfielder Ifellay then scored his first goal since joining from PSV Eindhoven at the start of last month in the 65th minute to kill off Almeria, who reached the last four for the first time.
