(CNN)A deadly storm that brought Chicago its snowiest February day on record is now delivering more winter weather to the Northeast.
Boston declared a snow emergency and banned on-street parking amid predictions of up to 14 inches of snow in parts of Massachusetts. New Yorkers were told to be prepared for roads and sidewalks to turn icy as temperatures plummet.
Back in the Midwest, scores of schools closed as Chicago coped with the effects of more than 18 inches of snow. Many roads remained snow-covered early Monday, the National Weather Service said.
"We don't have this much snow in Alaska right now," CNN affiliate WLS quoted Chicago visitors Emma Marks and Daniel Dobbs as saying.
The city got as much snow Sunday as it had in all of January, Mayor Rahm Emanuel said.
In Omaha, Nebraska, wet, heavy snow tested even heavy-duty snow blowers, CNN affiliate KETV reported.
"It kept coming and coming and coming," the station quoted Frank Halpine of Omaha as saying.
Authorities say at least 10 people have died as a result of the storm, including one in Michigan, two in New York, two in Wisconsin and one in Pennsylvania. The other four deaths were described in detail.
In Weymouth, Massachusetts, on Monday, a 57-year old pedestrian died after she was struck by a snowplow, according to Norfolk district attorney spokesman David Traub. The accident occurred at a condominium complex, and the incident is under investigation.
Two people died in car accidents in Nebraska as a result of slippery roads Sunday. The deaths occurred in Saunders and Lancaster counties, authorities said. In Ohio, Toledo police Officer Michael Greenwood died while shoveling snow at home Sunday, a police spokesman said.
In the Northeast, winter storm warnings covered parts of several states, including Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Vermont, Maine and New Hampshire.
Flights were canceled, schools closed and traffic snarled in the region.
Boston was expecting as much as a foot of snow. Schools were closed Monday and Tuesday, and officials urged residents to use public transportation to get to work if they had to go out at all.
As of early Monday afternoon, nearly 10 inches had already fallen, setting a new seven-day snowfall record with 34.2 inches.
The storm led Boston Mayor Marty Walsh to postpone a celebratory parade for the New England Patriots, who won the Super Bowl on Sunday night. The parade, which had been scheduled for Tuesday, will now happen on Wednesday, he said in a statement.
In New York, little additional accumulation was expected. But rainy, slushy conditions were expected to turn icy when temperatures fall Monday afternoon, according to CNN meteorologists.
"We would expect a lot of icing on our roads and sidewalks -- up to a quarter-inch of ice in some places, and a lot of that would happen in the early morning hours," New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio warned.
Pennsylvania groundhog Punxsutawney Phil didn't have to suffer the snow, but still forecast six more weeks of winter at his annual Groundhog Day appearance.
Legend has it that if Phil sees his shadow,  there will be six more weeks of winter weather. If he doesn't, there will be an early spring.
Nan Moore, who was visiting Punxsutawney to witness the prediction, correctly predicted the rodent's forecast.
"He's going to see his shadow," she said. "We're going to get more winter."
Airlines did not wait for a groundhog's prediction to plan. More than 3,700 Monday flights were canceled, according to Flightaware.com.
United, Delta, American, Virgin America, U.S. Airways, Southwest, Spirit and JetBlue all issued waivers that allow travelers to change flights without a penalty.
The air travel headache started over the weekend, with thousands of  flights canceled Sunday, many of them in and out of Chicago.
In preparation for the storm, Amtrak said it plans to adjust its schedule based on the weather.
"With extreme conditions expected in some areas during the next 24 to 36 hours, crews are actively monitoring the latest forecasts and planning for the possibility that service adjustments may be necessary," it said Sunday.
There may be changes to Acela Express and Northeast Regional services, Amtrak said. It urged Monday travelers to monitor schedules.
"We will re-evaluate service as conditions warrant," the rail service said.
Along with Boston and Chicago, the cities of Detroit, Omaha, and the Ohio cities of Akron, Toledo and Cleveland canceled public school Monday, but New York City schools will remain open.
CNN's Joe Sutton and Brian Todd contributed to this report.
