Chris Hoy became Great Britain's most decorated Olympian of all time after his victory in the men's keirin took his tally to six gold medals.
Hoy fought off a late charge from Germany's Maximilian Levy in the final sprint to cross the line first and then confirmed he is "99.9%" certain never to race in the Olympics again.
The 36-year-old was roared home by a vociferous crowd in the Velodrome to complete a dream Games for Team GB who won seven of the 10 track cycling gold medals on offer.
Earlier in the day Laura Trott added to the gold she won in the women's team pursuit with triumph in the omnium event, but home crowd favorite Victoria Pendleton was beaten to gold by Australian Anna Meares in the individual sprint.
Follow the action on day eleven with our London 2012 live blog
"I'm in shock, you try and compose yourself but it's surreal," Hoy told the host broadcaster after the race. "I wanted to win gold in front of my home crowd. I saw everyone stepping up to the plate and thankfully it worked out for me too.
"The keirin is a lottery and you never take anything for granted in it. I can't describe the feelings I have at the moment. This is enough for me, this is the perfect end to my Olympic career.
"I can't put into words what it means to me. It's one of the greatest feelings I have ever had. I'm 99.9% sure I won't be competing in Rio -- how can you top this?
"Glasgow (for the 2014 Commonwealth Games) is another question, as that would be the dream ending for me."
Hoy took the lead with two laps to go and though Levy briefly overtook him on the back straight, the Scot responded to power ahead and take the line.
He has now eclipsed the five gold medals won by rower Steve Redgrave to become Britain's most successful ever Olympian.
Behind Hoy and Levy, New Zealand's Simon Van Velthooven and Dutchman Teun Mulder could not be split by a photo finish and were both awarded bronze medals.
In the women's individual sprint final Meares gained revenge for defeat in the same event four years ago, as Pendleton had to settle for silver in her last race before retiring.
But though the Australian won the best of three final 2-0, it was a race tinged with controversy.
Pendleton thought she had won the first leg by 0.001 of a second, only to be disqualified by the judges for straying out of the sprint lane.
Her coaches argued Meares had nudged into her, forcing the mistake but the decision stood. She was also disqualified from the women's team sprint on Thursday.
In the second sprint Pendleton went off early but ran out of power as Meares surged past her to add another gold to the one she won in Athens.
It denied Pendleton a fairytale ending to a career in which she won two gold medals, including the women's keirin at the London Games.
"I'm so relieved and overwhelmed with emotion. I would have loved to have won on my final race but I'm so glad it's all done and I can move on," she said.
"I think Anna is the best rider of the field and it is the way it should have been, Anna and myself in the final, she's a fantastic competitor. But I'm very glad to be saying that's the last time I'm going to go through that.
"I was really annoyed (at being relegated) because I'm sure she touched me and it caused me to move up. I can't believe twice in the competition I've been disqualified and relegated, it's unheard of."
Prior to Pendleton's farewell race, 20-year-old Laura Trott secured her second gold in her first ever Olympics by winning the multi-discipline women's omnium event.
She set a new Olympic record in the the 500m time trial event to beat American Sarah Hammer and add to the gold she won in the women's team pursuit.
"I can't believe this has happened to me," she said. "I'm peaking at the right time and it's all thanks to the coaches, and the support of the crowd and my family."
