January 8, 2014
On Wednesday's edition of CNN Student News we examine the violence in Iraq and the U.S. response to it. We introduce you to the first woman to head the Federal Reserve and take a look at how some are handling the latest blast of super-cold weather. And we dive into a debate over artificial colors in some of your favorite candies.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were a producer, what information might you include in a report explaining what the Federal Reserve is?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.   insurgents
2.   Federal Reserve
3.   artificial food coloring
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1.   According to the video, what are some reasons behind the increase in violence in Iraq?
2.  To what position has Janet Yellin been appointed?  What is unique about her appointment?
3.  Why are thousands of petitioners asking the Mars candy company to remove artificial colors from M&Ms?  How has the company responded?
Discussion Questions:
1.  What is the U.S. government's position on the current violence in Iraq?  Do you agree or disagree with this position?  State your rationale.
2.  Is your region experiencing severe winter weather?  If so, how are you dealing with it?
3.  What is your opinion on artificial colors in foods?  Would you be willing to pay more for foods that have natural colors?  Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
