(CNN Student News) -- March 21, 2014
Covered this Friday on CNN Student News: A brain drain threatens China, scientists discover a glint of truth behind the "5-second rule" involving food and germs, a hacker uses a drone to expose cell phone insecurities, and technology is used to help victims of South Sudan's civil wars.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might you go verifying the facts of a study you heard about in the news?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What country was hit by a massive earthquake and tsunami three years ago this week?
2. What western European republic celebrated its national holiday on Monday?
3. What country's leader signed a treaty to annex Crimea?
4. What city was the scheduled destination of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370?
5. Mary Barra is the CEO of what major American automaker?
6. Andromeda, Whirlpool and Sombrero are all examples of what astronomic feature?
7. What is the oldest currency still in use?
8. What kind of vehicle is the U.S. Navy's P-8 Poseidon, which is being used to hunt for the missing Malaysia Airlines passenger plane?
9. What scientist found a link between germs and disease in the 1860s?
10. What honor, the United States' highest military decoration, was awarded to 24 individuals at the White House this week?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
