A San Francisco tour guide's expletive-laced rant about Chinatown on her last day of work has angered a metropolis used to celebrating the diverse and welcoming City by the Bay.
Her performance has gone viral, reaching way beyond her audience of tourists -- perhaps something she didn't expect when she played to the tourists' smart phones.
"F-k your little seafood f-ing markets with your turtles and frogs inside," said the tour guide, using a microphone to shout at her tour group. "Here in America, we don't eat turtles and frogs ... you got to assimilate a little bit, Chinatown."
Her tirade has already gotten more than 600,000 views on YouTube.
While some tourists on her tour bus applauded, San Franciscans -- including the city's top Chinese-American elected officials -- rallied against her speech.
'Ghetto' tours of Bronx ended after outrage
They include San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee and city Board of Supervisors President David Chiu, now running for state Assembly.
"It was amazingly disheartening and disturbing in 2014 that someone would say something so hurtful," Chiu told CNN on Friday.
"Hopefully we'll be able to use as a learning moment to build on," he said. "Not just for this tour guide and company, but for the community to say we stand up against racism and celebration of our diversity."
The tour bus company and the tour guide apologized directly to Chiu, he said.
In San Francisco, the tour guide's rant runs counter to the city's ethos, to say the least. The city has a long and storied history of acceptance, not just tolerance. Its residents have been on the forefront of many civil rights battles, including immigrant rights, homeless issues, "a living wage," gay rights and treatment of people with HIV and AIDS.
Moreover, San Francisco's Chinatown is home to a sizable population of people of Chinese descent, and the city claims its Chinatown is the oldest in North America.
San Francisco's population of 800,000 is more than one-third Asian-American, and the largest subset is people of Chinese descent (21.4%), according to the San Francisco Chronicle.
Something for a tour guide to consider.
