Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson signaled his intention to stay at the English Premier League champions for at least three more years but struggling Blackburn wrecked his 70th birthday celebrations with a stunning 3-2 win at Old Trafford Saturday.
Ferguson marked 25 years in charge of the English Premier League champions earlier this year, but his ambition clearly still burns bright.
"I think I've got three years at the club," Ferguson told the official club website.
"As long as my health stays up, and as long as I'm still enjoying it and still getting the satisfaction of the team doing its best," he added.
Ferguson's top moments in 25 years in charge
The legendary Scot has set his sights on further success in the European Champions League after their shock exit at the group stages this season and to add to the club's tally of 19 English championships.
"We have to continue the dominance of winning leagues and, without question, winning a European Cup is important at this club. We should have been in at least another three finals. But you can't be greedy, I suppose, and having won two in my time is an achievement.
"They were special, it was terrific to win them. I think I'd be very keen to do that (again)."
Blackburn, in the relegation zone of the EPL and with manager Steve Kean under continued pressure, scored probably the most unlikely win of the season after the United faithful had paid homage to their manager before the start.
Blog: Out with the old and in with the new in 2012
With Ferguson resting Wayne Rooney and other first team regulars, their Lancastrian neighbors led 1-0 at half time through an Ayegbeni Yakubu penalty.
It was awarded after Dimitar Berbatov pulled down Christopher Samba and put away with some aplomb.
Yakubu rifled home a super second, his 12th of the season just after the break, holding off Phil Jones and Michael Carrick before putting his side 2-0 ahead.
Almost immediately, Berbatov atoned for his earlier mistake by pulling one back and when the Bulgarian equalized with his sixth goal in three games, United looked set to claim victory.
But Kean's men were resolute throughout and in the 80th minute grabbed the winner.
It came after United goalkeeper David de Gea flapped at a Morten Gamst Pedersen corner and Grant Hanley was on hand to head home.
The result lifted Blackburn off the bottom, while United stayed level on points with neighbors Manchester City, who play Sunday against Sunderland.
Ferguson did not temper his reaction to the disappointing defeat which prevented his side leading the EPL at the end of the year.
"It is a disaster," he told Press Association.
"I never expected it. We lost two terrible goals and you can't do that."
