Petra Kvitova produced another scintillating showing to book her place in the final of the Dubai Open Friday.
The World No.8 defeated Caroline Wozniacki 6-3 6-4 to set up a clash for the title against Italy's Sara Errani.
The Czech star has beaten three top 12 opponents in succession and will now compete in her first final in sixth months.
Azarenka out of Dubai Open
"I'm really glad how I played today - it was a great match," Kvitova told the WTA official website.
"We are different players. She tries to put the balls back, and I'm the person who is playing aggressively and going for the winners.
"So what happens in the match really depends on if I'm missing a lot or no, and I played well today.
"The atmosphere here is really nice. I enjoyed every moment today and I'm happy I'm in the final."
Williams follows Azarenka in quitting Dubai
Wozniacki, who won the tournament two years ago, showed glimpses of quality, but failed to deal with the forceful nature of Kvitova's attack.
"She just went for every shot and hit it deep, and I came under pressure straightaway," Wozniacki added.
"I thought I served well, though. In the second set I think I had my chances, and I probably should have taken them but I didn't.
"You never know what could have happened in the third set but there was still a long way to go. At the end of the day, she played a very good match out there.
"Petra's a player that when she's on fire, she's on fire and she wins a lot of matches."
Vinci and Errani to meet in Dubai
Meanwhile, World No.7 Errani defeated her doubles partner Robert Vinci 6-3 6-3 following an hour and 23 minute battle.
"It's tough to play against one person who knows what you're going to do with every shot," she told the WTA website.
Errani will go into the final as favorite having won each of her three previous meetings against Kvitova without dropping a set.
But Kvitova believes she has every chance of springing a surprise Saturday.
"We've played a few times, but she's a Top 10 player," she added.
"She has a good forehand with big spin and is quite fast on the backhand.
"She moves very well, too. She has had great results in the past and played quite well today, and she beat Petrova yesterday too. She's a very tough opponent.
"I think it will be a really tough match tomorrow."
At the U.S Indoor Tennis Championships, Germany's Sabine Lisicki will face Marina Erakovic of New Zealand in Saturday's final.
Lisicki, who is aiming to win a fourth WTA tour title, defeated Magdalena Rybarikova in the semifinals 7-5 7-5, while Erakovic defeated Switzerland's Stefanie Voegele 6-2 6-4.
Elsewhere, home favorite Jo-Wilfried Tsonga booked his place in the semifinals of the Marseille Open following a 4-6 6-3 7-6 win over Australia's Bernard Tomic.
"I felt I was playing better than him, but there were some holes in my game," Tsonga told reporters.
"I am happy to get through because it was very, very tense."
Tsonga, who will meet fellow countryman Gilles Simon in the last four, fought off five match points before claiming victory.
Simon overcame Argentina's Juan Martin del Potro, who won last week's Rotterdam Open, 6-4 6-3 with the second seed needing treatment on a thigh injury.
In the other semifinal, Russian qualifier Dmitry Tursonov will face top seed Tomas Berdych.
Tursunov saw off Gilles Muller of Luxembourg 7-6 1-6 7-5, while Czech star Berdych overcame Poland's Jerzy Janowicz 6-3 6-7 6-3.
