Adam Scott hopes his third Singapore Open title triumph on Monday will act as a springboard for an assault on golf's four major tournaments next year.
The Australian completed a final-round 68 after the tournament went into a fifth day following weather disruptions, finishing on 17-under-par 267 -- three shots clear of Denmark's second-placed Anders Hansen.
The victory, his first at Sentosa since the Asian Tour event became co-sanctioned by the European Tour last year, launched him back into the top-20 of golf's world rankings.
It was the seventh European Tour title of the 30-year-old's career, and he will now turn his attention to claiming a maiden major title in 2011.
"You just want your game to be in good shape when you get to Augusta [the Masters] or the U.S. Open, the British Open, PGA Championship," Scott told the tournament's website after following up his 2005 and 2006 successes.
"I haven't prepared myself very successfully over the past years, but I sit back at the end of every year and look back at what I've learnt and how I can do things better.
"If I need to do them differently, I'll do that in a couple of weeks when the season's over."
The Adelaide native reached the top-10 of the rankings in 2005 and the following year achieved his best finish at a major -- tied for third at the U.S. PGA Championship.
He spent over 180 weeks among golf's elite, but his form deteriorated in the following few years and he dropped out of the top-50 in 2009.
Scott was happy with the form he showed in the rain-affected tournament at the Sentosa Golf Club -- his second success of 2010 after winning the PGA Tour's Valero Texas Open in May -- although he admitted to finding the harsh weather conditions challenging.
"It was a great win but it was a tough week for us. Testing weather conditions with delays and even when we were on the course, it can get uncomfortable at times as it was not easy to play," he said.
Defending champion Ian Poulter endured a frustrating final round of 73, slipping to a tie for sixth on 11-under after starting the day only three shots behind Scott.
His Ryder Cup teammate Graeme McDowell shot 70 to finish joint third alongside Sweden's Rikard Karlberg (67) on 14-under.
Spain's Miguel Angel Jimenez (66) shared eighth place with Keith Horne of South Africa (68) , with European Tour money-list leader Martin Kaymer -- the 2010 U.S. PGA champion -- down in 10th after closing with 69.
