(CNN Student News) -- November 8, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• India • Haiti • New York, New York
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Hope you're rested up and that you had a great weekend -- it was an hour longer at least! I'm Carl Azuz welcoming you to this November 8th edition of CNN Student News!
First Up: President Visits India
AZUZ: President Obama is on the road; he's taking a 10-day trip throughout Asia; he's visiting India, Indonesia, South Korea and Japan. He arrived in the Indian capital on Sunday -- you see him here with the first lady -- and one of the first things he pushed for was increased trade between India and the United States.
U.S. PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: I'm here because the partnership between India and the United States, I believe has limitless potential to improve the lives of both Americans and Indians, just as it has the potential to be an anchor of security and prosperity and progress for Asia and for the world.
AZUZ: But American critics are concerned about American jobs when it comes to India. The president says that a healthy relationship between the two countries will create American jobs, but critics say it's actually the opposite when U.S. businesses outsource jobs to the southeast Asian country.
Hurricane Tomas Impact
AZUZ: Hopelessness: That's the word that pretty much describes the feeling in many parts of Haiti. This is a small, and very poor, Caribbean nation that has endured a catastrophic earthquake, spreading disease, and most recently this year, a glancing shot from Hurricane Tomas. So it may not come as a surprise why many of the people in this report by Paula Newton seem to have just given up.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And then came Hurricane Tomas. Misery now overwhelms Haitians, just as easily as the flood waters did.
CHARLIE SIMOLIEN, LEOGANE RESIDENT [TRANSLATED]: This water now came by and washed away anything we had left.
NEWTON: Young Charlie Simolien wades through filthy water only to return to his earthquake ravaged home. This is Leogane, the very epicenter of January's epic quake, and now, it has seen some of the worst flooding. And yet for this, there is gratitude .Tomas spared them the worst. This is what the Estin family has been left with. There is water all over their home and this muddy soot, they are thankful that the water has started to recede but now they're left with this muddy soot. And so they try to clean up and recover once more. Many tell us, they've had it, their spirit broken. The quake, the continuing threat of cholera, the indignity of scavenging to survive, and now more water.
Jesner tells us he lost his leg to the earthquake, now Tomas has taken everything else.
JESNER, LEOGANE RESIDENT [TRANSLATED]: This is all I could save, my crutches.
NEWTON: It's difficult to comprehend that in the shadow of homes crushed by the quake, Haitians must now somehow survive. So little has changed here since January. Outside Haiti there is talk of donor fatigue, but inside Haiti, they're sick of something else: all the attention. They say it raises their expectations for help, and crushes them once more when it fails to turn up.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE [TRANSLATED]: We always have foreigners come and talk to us and offer help, they take our stories, they take advantage of us and it's about time this ends.
NEWTON: Hurricane Tomas' last lash may be behind them but many Haitians tell us they no longer believe anyone can help them when the next calamity strikes.
(END VIDEO)
Is This Legit?
CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is This Legit? A marathon is 13.1 miles long. Not legit! A marathon is twice this distance: 26.2 miles from start to finish!
New York Marathon
AZUZ: Temperatures in the low forties, 26 miles of non-stop running: The New York City Marathon isn't for the faint of heart -- or foot. On the other hand, Edison Pena doesn't seem to be faint of anything. He was one of the 33 Chilean miners who spent 69 days trapped underground. And he actually trained while he was down there, running miles through the mine tunnel every day! Pena hit the New York pavement on Sunday along with more than 40,000 other competitors. The winners were also from abroad: An Ethiopian man who'd never run a marathon before had a time of two hours and eight minutes. And the women's winner, a Kenyan, finished in about two hours, 28 minutes. Pena managed to finish the race in 5 hours and 40 minutes, which was a little faster than he expected.
Discovery Stays Put
AZUZ: This isn't where Space Shuttle Discovery was supposed to be by now; it should have been docked at the international space station. But its launch was delayed again on Friday because of a hydrogen leak found near one of Discovery's fuel tanks. This happened after gas leaks, electrical problems and bad weather. All that caused earlier delays of the 39th mission of the soon-to-be terminated shuttle program. Discovery is NASA's oldest, and most experienced, shuttle; its first mission was in 1984. After finding the hydrogen leak, scientists expect it'll be November 30th, at the earliest, before Discovery flies again, on what is supposed to be its last mission.
This Day in History
(ON SCREEN GRAPHIC)
November 8, 1793 -- The Louvre, France's renowned museum, opens to the public
November 8, 1837 -- Mount Holyoke Seminary, America's first college dedicated exclusively to women, opens in Massachusetts
November 8, 1895 -- Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen discovers X-rays while researching electric current
Shoutout
CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for the Shoutout! Who said, "Nothing ever comes to one, that is worth having, except as a result of hard work"? You know what to do! Was it: A) Booker T. Washington, B) Benjamin Franklin, C) George Washington Carver, or D) Thomas Edison? Three seconds, and GO! Booker T. Washington was talking about raising money when he wrote these famous words. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Career Connections
AZUZ: Examples of how hard work pays off can be seen in our "Career Connections" segment with our own associate producer, Tomeka Jones. Tomeka?
TOMEKA JONES, ASSOCIATE PRODUCER: Carl, those words you mentioned-- "hard work"? Well, the professionals we've talked to strongly believe in it. This week, the spotlight is on production assistant Monique Smith. She says being a P.A., well, it's all about what you make it. And she knows it's putting her on the right path to achieving her goal of being a producer.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
MONIQUE SMITH, CNN PRODUCTION ASSISTANT: My role is to basically do whatever the producers need me to do. That can include anything from logging to making sure I have all the stuff ready for the editors to go through. First of all a SOT is sound on tape. Logging is transcribing or writing down word for word what everybody is saying., so the reason that we're able to pick the pieces of sound that we do is that somebody has to actually go through and write down everything that was said in that entire piece of video. Creating a precut is getting that piece of video or that piece of sound that we plan on airing ready for the editor.
All the things you learn as a production assistant, none of your time is wasted. You learn so many basic, good skills that you're going to have to use for the rest of your career. So when you're a producer you basically make the judgment calls on what you're going to put in that show that day. But you can also look back on your production assistant days, remember when you were doing all that logging and making all those numbers and you can think, hmm, now I know what all that stuff was for. The advice that I would give is if your school has a broadcasting program make sure you are in that program. Find out what your passion is, because whenever you find out something that you really feel strongly about and you have a good background in it, whatever you decide to do it won't feel like work. It will feel like something you're doing for fun because you're interested in it.
(END VIDEO)
Before We Go
AZUZ: Historians don't know why there were so few Honus Wagner baseball cards. Wagner was a speedy shortstop nicknamed "The Flying Dutchman," played from 1897 to 1917, mostly with Pittsburgh. He was in the very first World Series ever, had more than 3,400 hits, and appears on one of the rarest cards on the planet. This particular card was left to a group of Catholic nuns by one nun's brother. They put it up for auction last week and the card brought them almost 263,000 dollars!
Goodbye
AZUZ: That money will pay for their charity work in 35 countries so you can understand why the honus was on them to sell the card. All right, if you didn't get that, or like it, we'll just have to take another swing tomorrow. For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.
