Silverstone, the host of the British Grand Prix, has unveiled a multi-million dollar revamp of their pit lane and paddock facilities called "The Wing."
The $43m development began after Silverstone secured a 17-year contract to stage the British Grand Prix back in 2009.
Part of the agreement stipulated the circuit must be upgraded and five former British world champions, including current McLaren driver Jenson Button, were on hand to help launch the new building.
It has three floors and a distinctive wing at one end. Designed by the architects who were behind the London 2012 Olympic Stadium it includes 41 garages, a new media center, hospitality suites, a conference center and a new VIP spectator area.
Button was joined by former British champions John Surtees (1964), Jackie Stewart (1969, 1971, 1973), Nigel Mansell (1992) and Damon Hill, the 1996 title holder, and head of the British Racing Drivers' Club (BRDC) which runs Silverstone.
He said: "The official opening of the Silverstone Wing represents the culmination of many years hard work and gives a clear statement of intent for the future.
"Silverstone has a significant historical legacy, but we maintain our place at the forefront of contemporary international motor sport, hosting an array of world class events and activities.
"This is in no small measure because British competitors have consistently led the way at the highest level of global motor sport for over eighty years.
"The BRDC is extremely proud of this new building, but we acknowledge that none of it would have been possible without our superb and exceptional Silverstone team.
"Silverstone is a cornerstone of our industry and the BRDC will continue to develop the circuit to ensure that Britain has a world class home for motor sport and related technology."
Silverstone staged the British Grand Prix from 1948 onwards but was stripped of the race in favor of Donington Park in 2008. After concerns the new venue would not be ready in time Silverstone was handed a 17-year contract a little over 12 months later.
Formula One rights holder Bernie Ecclestone, who insisted on the pit lane development when re-awarding Silverstone the British GP, called the opening of 'The Wing' an "important day for Formula One."
He added: "The new pit and paddock complex is a state-of-the-art facility and will form the backbone of Silverstone's plans to be a world class facility of its type.
"I am delighted with the progress and prospects for the future of Silverstone. It is a great shame that it could not have been completed 10 years ago, but well done Silverstone."
