Actress Amanda Bynes grabbed media attention Friday with a series of tweets about her father, her looks and her mental state.
It's the latest bizarre event in what has been a rough couple years for the performer, who was charged with a hit-and-run in 2012, hospitalized for treatment last year after a psychological evaluation and put on probation after a DUI earlier this year.
Bynes, 28, has been in the public eye much of her life.
Up: She was a child star
She was born in 1986, was raised in Southern California and first rose to fame as one of the stars of Nickelodeon's "All That," a sketch comedy show that also produced Kenan Thompson and Nick Cannon. Bynes, who joined "All That" when she was 10, was so popular that she got her own show, "The Amanda Show," by the time she was 13.
Before she'd turned 20, she'd co-starred with Frankie Muniz in the 2002 movie "Big Fat Liar," had a leading role in the TV series "What I Like About You" and was on the cover of Vanity Fair. She starred in the 2003 film "What a Girl Wants," a modest success.
She also was a straight-A high school student, according to an interview in Cosmopolitan.
Cannon has remained a friend and has stood up for Bynes throughout her difficulties.
"You're not alone," he wrote last year. "I'm here for you. I understand. I care and I appreciate you, because that's what family does and that's what family is for."
Up: She was on the verge of major movie success
In 2006, Bynes was named one of Teen People's hottest stars under 25, and the next year had her biggest success as Penny Pingleton in the 2007 movie version of the musical "Hairspray." She was also one of the stars of the well-reviewed 2010 comedy "Easy A."
But there was also trouble on the horizon. She signed a deal with a fashion designer to market clothes under the name Dear, but the designer went out of business. She was replaced on one movie. Another, "Hairspray 2," never materialized.
In June 2010, she tweeted she was done with acting at 24.
"I've never written the movies & tv shows I've been apart of I've only acted like the characters the producers or directors wanted me to play," she wrote. "Being an actress isn't as fun as it may seem ... I don't love acting anymore so I've stopped doing it."
Down: Her behavior became erratic
Within a month, she'd taken back her announcement.
"I've unretired," she tweeted in July, not long before "Easy A's" release. However, she hasn't made a movie since.
Relationships reportedly came and went with Nick Zano, reality star Doug Reinhardt and (briefly) Seth MacFarlane.
Then came the gossip about her own behavior. She was arrested on suspicion of DUI after getting into a fender-bender with police not long after her 26th birthday in April 2012. In August, she was accused of hitting another driver and then driving off. She was charged with two counts of hit-and-run.
In February 2014 the DUI charge was dismissed in a plea deal that gave the actress three years on probation, a requirement to attend an alcohol education course and pay a fine after she entered a no-contest plea to reckless driving.
Things became stranger. She asked President Obama on Twitter to fire the officer who had arrested her on the DUI charges. Clients at an L.A. gym reported she was acting bizarrely and talking to herself. But, she told People magazine that she was "doing amazing," and planned to move to New York to pursue a career in fashion design.
Up: After treatment, new goals
Bynes' social media posts started attracting more attention, whether they were selfies of constantly changing looks or unsettling comments about others. One of her tweets read, "If I'm not following you on twitter, I hate you."
In May 2013, she was arrested in New York after allegedly tossing drug paraphernalia out of the window of her apartment.
In July she was placed under an involuntary psychiatric hold after she was "involved in a disturbance in a residential neighborhood" in Thousand Oaks, California. She eventually entered an inpatient psychiatric facility.
Yet things seemed to improve after she was released. She moved back in with her parents, who had taken custody of her and had said she was "making great strides towards recovery" from mental illness. She hadn't always had a solid relationship with them. In 2012, People reported that she had tried to emancipate herself while working for Nickelodeon, though she never moved out entirely.
She continued outpatient treatment this year while going to school.
Down: More troubles
In late September, Bynes was arrested on a DUI charge in Sherman Oaks, California. Her arrest report noted a "disheveled appearance."
On Wednesday in New York she was nabbed by security at a clothing store for suspected shoplifting, though she was let go after signing a "no-trespass agreement," TMZ reported. She also threatened to sue InTouch magazine for writing "lies about me."
Then came Friday's tweets.
First, a series of comments were posted to Bynes' official account that day alleging the star's father was verbally, physically and sexually abusive. But within a few hours, another tweet was posted claiming that the allegations were false.
Due to the sensitive nature of the tweets, which haven't been confirmed to have been posted by Bynes herself, we're refraining from sharing them here. CNN has reached out to Bynes' parents and Bynes' lawyer, and hasn't yet received a response.
CNN's Alan Duke, Jane Caffrey and Breeanna Hare contributed to this story.
