A Cairo court Saturday adjourned the retrial of former President Hosni Mubarak over charges of involvement in the killing of protesters during the country's 2011 revolution.
A judge postponed the retrial to August 25th.
Mubarak faces charges connected to the killing of protesters during the revolution. He was forced from office in February 2011 following two weeks of mass street protests.
His trial, which was adjourned last month, continued despite the latest upheaval in the country he ruled for 30 years. Protesters calling for a reinstatement of his successor as president, Mohamed Morsy, have battled with security forces for days, leaving hundreds dead.
Following a lengthy trial, Mubarak and his former interior minister, Habib al-Adly, were found guilty and sentenced to life in prison last year on charges that they were complicit in the protesters' killings.
After appealing their convictions, they were granted a new trial early this year.
Six of Mubarak's former security aides last year were acquitted of charges related to the killings, and Mubarak's two sons -- Gamal and Alaa -- were acquitted of corruption charges.
But they, too, were ordered to be retried after Morsy, himself ousted last month, ordered a new investigation last year.
Mubarak and the other defendants have pleaded not guilty to all charges. The former president made his first court appearance in May.
Mubarak has been held since his guilty verdict last year. After months spent in a military hospital, a public prosecutor sent him back to prison in April.
Mubarak's health has been a bone of contention during his trial and incarceration. He suffered a heart attack after relinquishing power and had maintained that he was physically unfit to stand trial.
He is also charged with seizing public funds and misusing political influence. In addition, he faces a corruption charge that was not part of the original trial. Mubarak is accused of selling natural gas to neighboring Israel for prices below fair market value.
The ousted autocratic leader spent three decades in charge of Egypt, the most populous Arab country.
Journalist Adam Makary contributed to this report.
