Scotland striker Chris Iwelumo marked his international debut on Saturday by missing an open goal in the 0-0 draw against Norway.
Iwelumo made his debut appearance for his national side, but missed a two-yard tap-in.
Despite the easy nature of the chance, Iwelumo is by no means the first player to fail to score in such simple circumstances on British soil...
For this 11-a-side we have compiled 10 other heart-stopping gaffes to prove to the unfortunate Scot that he's not alone in his misery.
How many of these other shocking misses do you remember?
1) Ronny Rosenthal: LIVERPOOL v Aston Villa 1992
With the score tied at 0-0 the Israeli striker rounded the goalkeeper and, faced with the goal at his mercy, somehow contrived to smack his shot against the crossbar. Liverpool went on to lose the match 4-2.
2) Ryan Giggs: MANCHESTER UNITED v Arsenal 2003
Giggs had scored one of the FA Cup's great goals when taking on the whole of the Arsenal defense in their semifinal at Villa Park in 1999. However, four years later, the Welsh winger managed to balloon his shot over the crossbar after a mistake had allowed him a clear run on goal. Arsenal went on to win 2-0 on their way to lifting the trophy.
3) Robert Pires/Thierry Henry: ARSENAL v Manchester City 2005
Arsenal were 1-0 ahead, courtesy of an earlier Pires penalty, when they were handed another opportunity from the spot and instead of simply taking the second penalty, Pires attempted to roll the ball to French team-mate Henry. However, he scuffed the pass and conceded a free-kick in the process, much to the disgust of his opponents who accused Pires of lacking respect. Certainly the oddest penalty the Premier League has ever seen.
4) Kanu: WEST BROMWICH ALBION v Middlesbrough 2004
With Albion trailing 2-1, and the clock on 90 minutes, the Nigerian striker managed to lob the ball over the bar from just one yard out -- something his manager Bryan Robson said at the time was 'almost impossible'.
5) Freddie Ljungberg: ARSENAL v Bolton 2005
Swedish midfielder Ljungberg had already given Arsenal the lead in this FA Cup quarterfinal but, with Bolton steaming forward for an equalizer, he then astonishingly scooped the ball over the crossbar from two yards out with the goal gaping. The miss mattered little as Arsenal went on to beat Manchester United in the final -- and have not won anything since.
6) Gordon Smith: BRIGHTON v Manchester United 1983
Smith will empathize with Iwelumo more than most. Smith is currently the chief executive of the Scottish Football Association, but during his playing career he was responsible for one of the most famous misses in FA Cup final history. With the score level at 2-2 in injury time, Smith was put clean through to give minnows Brighton the chance to make history. The commentator famous screamed: "And Smith must score.." He didn't...and United won the replay 4-0.
7) Gareth Southgate: ENGLAND v Germany 1996
This Euro '96 semifinal at Wembley had finished 1-1 and each side had scored their first five penalties. Defender Southgate, not a regular penalty taker was next in line and his weak effort was hit straight at German keeper Koepke. Andreas Moeller then converted for Germany, who went on to win the competition.
8) Cristiano Ronaldo: MANCHESTER UNITED v Sheffield United 2006
Just to show even the greatest fluff their lines. With Man United 2-1 ahead at Bramall Lane and cruising to the three points, a piece of Wayne Rooney magic on the right wing presented Ronaldo with an open goal just three yards out. However, the Portuguese wizard casually sliced his shot high over the bar. The visitors had the last laugh by winning the Premier League title, while the Blades ended up being relegated in very controversial circumstances.
9) Peter Van Vossen: RANGERS v Celtic 1996
So bad was this miss, that even now a howler in front of goal is known in Scotland as 'doing a Van Vossen'. Rangers were 1-0 up at Parkhead when the Dutch striker, with the goal gaping and the keeper nowhere, contrived to shoot over the bar. Despite the howler, Rangers went on to claim their ninth Scottish title in a row at the end of the season.
10) Geoff Horsfield: BIRMINGHAM v Manchester City 2003
With Birmingham losing 1-0 going into injury time, Horsfield is played through, goes around goalkeeper Peter Schmeichel but then comically mis-kicks and falls over with the goal at his mercy. The defeat left Birmingham in deep relegation trouble although they managed to avoid the drop that season.
Don't agree with our list? Have we missed one out? Have you seen a more outrageous miss than these? Leave a comment in the Sound Off box below. Read more about the sport at CNN's Football Fanzone
