Wayne Rooney's stunning overhead kick was enough to give Manchester United a 2-1 win over arch rivals Manchester City in the English Premier League on Saturday.
Rooney's strike, only his fifth league goal of the season, means Alex Ferguson's team extend their lead over their neighbors to eight points with a game in hand on Roberto Mancini's side.
United took the lead at Old Trafford through Nani on the stroke of halftime. The Portugal winger beat Pablo Zabaleta before calmly slotting the ball past goalkeeper Joe Hart.
City equalized after 65 minutes when substitute Edin Dzeko saw his shot deflect off Spanish teammate David Silva and spin into the back of the net.
Has Rooney joined football's immortals?
But it was the home team who would claim all three points after England striker Rooney acrobatically rifled home Nani's looping cross with only 12 minutes remaining.
Second-placed Arsenal remain four points behind United after a 2-0 victory over Wolverhampton Wanderers at the Emirates Stadium.
Dutch striker Robin van Persie continued his impressive recent form by scoring a goal in each half as Arsene Wenger's team extended their lead over third-placed City to four points.
West Ham recovered from being 3-0 down at halftime to rescue a draw away at relegation rivals West Bromwich Albion.
West Ham overtake EPL rivals Tottenham
The home team appointed former Liverpool manager Roy Hodgson as successor to the sacked Roberto di Matteo on Friday.
Roberto Di Matteo sacked as West Brom manager
Hodgson watched from the stands as Graham Dorrans, Jerome Thomas and a Winston Reid own-goal saw West Brom take control of the opening 45 minutes.
Former Hoffenheim striker Demba Ba pulled one back for the Hammers just after the interval, before England's Carlton Cole scored his eighth goal of the season to make the score 3-2.
The comeback was completed with seven minutes left when Senegal forward Ba swept home a cross to score his second goal and West Ham's third.
The points lifted West Ham off the bottom of the table, while West Brom remained just above the relegation zone in 17th place.
Tottenham Hotspur moved into fourth position after coming from behind to beat Sunderland 2-1 at the Stadium of Light.
Ghana striker Asamoah Gyan gave Steve Bruce's team the lead after he turned to fire a powerful, low shot past Brazilian goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes.
Tottenham pulled level when Sunderland keeper Craig Gordon allowed Michael Dawson's header to squirm between his legs and into the back of the net.
For the second week in a row, Croatia midfielder Niko Kranjcar proved to be Tottenham's match-winner when he found the target with a sweetly-struck volley after 57 minutes.
The result saw the North London outfit climb above reigning champions Chelsea, who play Fulham on Monday.
Liverpool's run of four consecutive league wins came to an end with a 1-1 draw against Wigan Athletic at Anfield.
Portugal midfielder Raul Meireles gave Kenny Dalglish's side a first-half lead with his fourth goal in the last five matches.
But Roberto Martinez's side grabbed a point when Ivorian defender Steve Gohouri prodded the ball into the net from an Antolin Alcaraz flick-on.
Blackpool came from a goal down to earn a 1-1 draw at home to Gerard Houllier's Aston Villa.
Forward Gabriel Agbonlahor gave Villa the lead on 10 minutes after being released by England striker Darren Bent.
The visitors' lead lasted only four minutes after Elliot Grandin's near-post header gave Ian Holloway's team an equalizer.
Villa finished the match with 10 men after Cameroon midfielder Jean Makoun was given a red card for a dangerous tackle on DJ Campbell.
Birmingham City further eased their relegation worries with a 1-0 win over Stoke City.
Serbia striker Nikola Zigic grabbed a stoppage-time goal to hand the Blues a second successive league win.
Blackburn Rovers were held to a goalless draw at home to Newcastle United.
The Tynesiders remain in 10th place, while Blackburn stay in 11th. Both teams have 32 points.
