African soccer star Emmanuel Adebayor has revealed that he is quitting international football in the wake of the deadly gun attack on the Togo team bus in Angola in January.
Adebayor was national captain, but said on Monday that he no longer wanted to represent his country following the events which saw two people killed and several injured after rebels fired on the bus en route to the Africa Cup of Nations.
"I have made the very difficult decision to retire from international football," the 26-year-old striker told the Web site of his English club Manchester City.
"I have weighed up my feelings in the weeks and months since the attack, and I am still haunted by the events which I witnessed on that horrible afternoon on the Togo team bus.
"We were just footballers going to play a football match and represent our country, yet we were attacked by people who wanted to kill us all. It is a moment I will never forget and one I never want to experience again."
After deciding not to take part in the tournament, Togo were suspended from the next two stagings of the two-yearly event and fined $50,000.
Adebayor returned to England later in January after taking time out to recover from the ordeal, and his 13 goals this season have helped City claim fourth place in the Premier League to be on the brink of earning a place in Europe's top club competition.
"Togo have some very talented players, and I dearly hope the players who remain will be able to put their memories of Angola behind them and go on to be a success for the nation," the 2008 African Footballer of the Year said.
"I have enormous belief in each and every one of them: players, coaches, staff and their families. The people who were on that coach together will forever be joined by a special bond -- we are all brothers.
"I will always have the team and the people of Togo close to my heart, and wish them every success in the challenges that they will face in the future."
Adebayor has played 38 times for his country since making his international debut in 2000, scoring 16 times.
"Despite the events in Angola, I have some very good memories of my international career," he said.
"I feel very proud to have been trusted with the position of captain of the Togolese football team. Leading your country in international competition is the ultimate honor for any player."
