Dutch international Ryan Babel has threatened to leave English Premier League side Liverpool unless he is picked to play in more games by his manager Rafa Benitez.
The 22-year-old has told British newspaper The Sun he feels his career has stalled since his move to Anfield, and if the situation does not improve soon he will seek a transfer in January's European transfer window.
Babel said that he had told Benitez about his feelings but the situation remained unresolved: "I have tried to talk to the manager but it isn't of any use. I couldn't really do anything with the feedback [he] gave me. How well is Benitez performing in the battle of the managerial mind games?
"We have agreed to look at my situation during the winter. If there's no improvement then, I have to be honest, I [will] want to play somewhere else. I don't play a lot so I can't be happy and I can't cheer out loud.
"Certain emotions are blocked, they are pushed back by all the worries I carry with me. Sometimes I wonder how long I can sustain it but I will fight for my position - what else can I do?" he added.
Babel's demands come as his side prepare for a crucial away match against Hungarian side Debrecen on Tuesday, in the European Champions League.
The five-time former European champions need to win their game and hope Group E rivals Lyon are not beaten by Fiorentina to qualify for the final 16, or else face being dumped out of the world's most lucrative club competition
Failure in Europe could increase calls for Benitez to be replaced as Liverpool's current position of seventh in the Premier League has disappointed many fans.
Benitez has injury problems to contend with too; Babel, who scored a against Lyon in their last European encounter, Fernando Torres and Albert Riera are all sidelined.
However, the under pressure boss remained positive before the game in a pre-match press conference: "The last time we qualified it was amazing,'' said Benitez.
"We did it in a good way with four goals against Porto, four goals against Marseille and eight against Besiktas.
"It will be difficult, but we have to do our job, win against Debrecen and then look at Lyon's result. Lyon know that qualifying first is an incentive, it will be good for their confidence and they will get some money too.
"Lyon have this incentive and they are a good team. If we can play against Fiorentina with options it will be fantastic.''
Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher also remained upbeat: "We always believe at this club that we can do special things. We have done it in the past and we know we can do it again," he told reporters.
"We have got ourselves into a bit of a hole and hopefully we can get out of it. It has been done before and we know we can do it again," he added.
Tuesday's European Champions League fixtures:
Rubin v Dynamo  Arsenal v Standard Liege AZ v Olympiacos  Barcelona v Inter Milan  Debrecen v Liverpool  Fiorentina v Lyon  Rangers v Stuttgart  Unirea Urziceni v Sevilla
