Ray J Norwood has been charged with four misdemeanors in a case in which he's accused of grabbing a woman's buttocks, smashing a police car window and spitting on a cop.
The Los Angeles County district attorney on Monday filed the charges against the singer stemming from an incident at a Beverly Hills hotel on May 30, a court filing said.
Norwood, 33, is infamous as Kim Kardashian's partner in the sex tape that launched her reality show career.
A police spokesman said Norwood's initial hearing is set for Friday, although he does not have to attend since the charges are misdemeanors. The criminal complaint lists four counts: sexual battery, vandalism, resisting arrest and battery.
Ray J's publicist declined to comment about the charges.
Beverly Hills police arrested him at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel on May 30 after a woman complained that he "grabbed her buttocks," a police statement said.
Although the initial police report said it was decided that the "contact was incidental," the complaint alleged that it was sexual battery because Ray J did "unlawfully touch an intimate part" of the woman for the "specific purpose of sexual arousal, sexual gratification and sexual abuse."
The vandalism, battery and resisting arrest charges filed by the Los Angeles County district attorney stem from what happened after police arrived at the hotel.
Norwood "became belligerent with the valets and refused to leave," despite repeated requests by hotel security, the police statement said.
"After the uniform police officers took Mr. Norwood into custody and placed him in the rear of a police vehicle, he became belligerent and used his feet to shatter the side window of the police vehicle," the police statement said. "Mr. Norwood was subsequently removed from the police vehicle in order to restrain his feet; at which time he became combative and spat into the face of one of the officers."
Former Destiny's Child member arrested after NFL players call police on her
John McEnroe's son arrested on drug charges
