He has met the United States' former First Lady, and an audience with Barack Obama awaits, but the American that world champion boxer Amir Khan really wants to face next is proving a bit more elusive.
The British fighter has set his heart on becoming the planet's best pound-for-pound pugilist, and for him that means taking on the undefeated Floyd Mayweather Jr. -- who, as a five-division champion, once laid claim to that coveted crown.
Khan, 24, unified the WBA super and IBF light welterweight world championship belts in July by defeating American Zab Judah in Las Vegas in July, while Mayweather recently returned to the ring after a 16-month absence.
Six-time world champion Mayweather has won all of his 42 fights as a professional, 26 by knockout, and emerged victorious from a controversial contest with Victor Ortiz on September 18.
But the fight many boxing fans want to see is Mayweather against eight-division champion Manny Pacquiao -- the Filipino rated by Ring Magazine as the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
"Floyd Mayweather pound for pound is probably one of the best fighters in the world," Khan, who won an Olympic silver medal in the lightweight category at the Athens Games in 2004, told CNN.
"Me and Manny both want to fight him, but that will never happen because at the moment he doesn't want to fight either of us. But it will come to a stage when the pressure will be so much on Floyd Mayweather that he'll have to take the fight."
Khan doubts that a match-up between his Golden Boy stablemate Mayweather and Top Rank's Pacquiao will ever happen, with disagreements over drug-testing and money having previously prevented the fight.
"You've got two different promotion teams, and for them to agree on terms for a fight is very difficult," he said.
"Firstly, you've got Mayweather saying that Manny has to take so many drug tests and blood tests, then Manny talking about the purse. But that fight will generate about $100 million each, so it's a lot of money to say no to."
Mayweather, 34, and Pacquiao, 32, have both occupied the position of best pound-for-pound boxer in the world, and Khan is aiming to emulate the success enjoyed by the decorated duo.
"I want to be known as a legend in the sport and I want to win everything. I want to be a pound-for-pound champion of the world, and every morning when I wake up that's what drives me to the gym to train hard," he said.
"When I'm tired in the gym, that's what pushes me, because I want to be the best there is. And, I'm nearly there. I'm only 24, I'm the unified champion, I'm a two-time world champion, and I've done it so young. But I want to achieve more."
Khan has seen his international profile increase in the last 18 months, having fought in the U.S. on three occasions since making his American bow against Paulie Malignaggi at New York's Madison Square Gardens in March 2010.
It would now appear even politicians are starting to sit up and take notice of the Bolton-born fighter, with Khan having recently met U.S. Secretary of State Hilary Clinton and now being lined up for an audience with President Barack Obama later this year.
"I was invited to go to the state building," said Khan. "Hilary Clinton invited me and my team. It was an honor to be part of that event. It was about the Muslim sportsmen who were influential and who do good things in the Muslim community.
"I enjoyed it and they want me back over there in December probably to meet Obama, so it's good times.
"When they first got talking about it, I thought they were just pulling my leg, but they were quite serious about it, and I thought 'Wow'. I might never get the chance to go to the White House or meet Obama again, so I'm going to make the most of it."
