Rapper Gucci Mane was charged in federal court Tuesday with two counts of possessing a firearm as a felon after two September incidents during which he showed a gun and threatened police, according to the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Georgia.
Reports at the time indicated that the "Lemonade" rhymer was arrested in Atlanta on September 14 after a friend flagged down police to say he was concerned about the rapper's behavior.
After Gucci Mane became "increasingly agitated" and threatened officers, police said, he was taken into custody and charged with disorderly conduct, marijuana possession and carrying a handgun.
The federal prosecutor's news release indicates, however, that there were two incidents in September, two days apart and on the same week that Atlantic Records reportedly dropped Gucci Mane, 33, whose real name is Radric Davis.
"On September 12, 2013, Davis, who was a felon at the time, was found in possession of a firearm," the release said. "Then, just two days later, on September 14th, he again possessed a firearm different from the earlier gun. On both occasions, Davis displayed the loaded firearm, acted erratically, and made threats to individuals, including police and his attorney."
Atlanta police and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, who are investigating the incident, applauded the arrest. Atlanta Police Chief George Turner said in a statement, "We cannot tolerate convicted felons ignoring the law by carrying firearms and endangering our citizens."
Added U.S. Attorney Sally Quillian Yates, "This is how people get hurt, and we are committed to ensuring that convicted felons not have guns."
A federal grand jury indicted Davis on November 19. He made an initial appearance before Magistrate Judge Linda T. Walker and was detained in custody pending trial.
Each charge of being a felon in possession of a firearm carries a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000.
In March, Davis was arrested for hitting a man over the head with a champagne bottle at an Atlanta nightclub. The man told police the incident occurred after he tried to strike up a conversation with the rapper.
In 2010, he was arrested in Atlanta for violating a number of traffic laws, but the charges were dismissed.
In 2005, Davis was charged with murder in the shooting death of a man, but the charge was dropped because of insufficient evidence.
