Mick Jagger said a final goodbye to L'Wren Scott before his girlfriend was laid to rest in a Hollywood cemetery Tuesday.
Jagger's daughters and grandchildren also spoke at the private funeral for Scott at the historic Hollywood Forever cemetery, a family spokesman said.
Scott, a notable fashion designer and Jagger's longtime girlfriend, was found dead in her New York apartment last week.  The medical examiner concluded that she killed herself by "hanging."
"Words of tribute" to Scott, 49, were spoken by Jagger, as well as her brother Randy Bambrough, talent agent Justinian Kfoury, costume designer Ira M. Hammons-Glass and Adam Glassman, creative director of Oprah Winfrey's O Magazine.
Jagger's daughter, Karis, and actress Ellen Barkin each read a poem during the service.  Jagger's daughter Jade read Psalm 139: "You have searched me, Lord, and you know me." His grandchildren, Mazie and Zak, read Psalm 23: "The Lord is my shepherd, I lack nothing."
Scott's niece, Hannah, read Shakespeare's Sonnet 18: "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Longtime Rolling Stones background singer Bernard Fowler sang "Will the Circle be Unbroken," while Dave Stewart played guitar.
Jagger, 70, posted a personal statement about Scott's death on his website last week: "I am still struggling to understand how my lover and best friend could end her life in this tragic way. We spent many wonderful years together and had made a great life for ourselves. She had great presence and her talent was much admired, not least by me."
Scott, a lanky former model, became a celebrity stylist and eventually a designer.
She designed costumes for films such as the 1996 remake of "Diabolique," 2000's "Mercy" and 2007's "Ocean's Thirteen." In addition to her haute couture creations, she designed a collection for Banana Republic that was introduced late last year.
Madonna, Allison Williams and Christina Hendricks were among her celebrity clients.
But she was most closely associated with Jagger -- not just for designing the  rocker's duds for the Rolling Stones' 50th anniversary tour, which began in 2012, but for being his longtime companion. The couple had been dating since at least 2003.
Jo Wood, the ex-wife of Rolling Stones guitarist Ronnie Wood, said the precarious finances of Scott's fashion business may have played a role in the apparent suicide.
"I think it might have been, for her, a question of losing face," the 59-year-old Wood told CNN in an exclusive interview last week.
"She was such a proud woman that, I think, to face that, well maybe that was the trigger."
Hollywood Forever, located next to Paramount Studios, is the final resting place for many famous people, including movie idol Rudolph Valentino, famed film director Cecil B. DeMille, cartoon voice artist Mel Blanc and rock guitarist Johnny Ramone.
CNNMoney: L'Wren Scott's business was in trouble
