(CNN)As goal celebrations go it was almost certainly unique but Roma captain Francesco Totti had plenty to celebrate.
His title challenging side was trailing 2-0 to arch city rival Lazio in the Rome derby before the veteran striker worked his magic in the second half.
Totti cut the arrears with a fine angled strike in the 48th minute of the clash in the Olympic Stadium.
He then claimed his second and the vital equalizer as connected with Jose Holebas's curling delivery for an acrobatic finish.
In frenzied celebrations, Totti promptly grabbed a mobile telephone from one of the Roma coaching staff and took a 'selfie' picture of himself.
The shot was later posted on the club's official Facebook page and has gone viral on social media.
It was the 38-year-old's 239th goal in Serie A in his 22nd season with Roma.
Neither side could add to its tally in a frantic finale to a fine match.
Totti needs another 35 to match Silvio Piola's all-time Serie A record of 274, and temporarily drew Rudi Garcia's team level at the top with Juventus.
However, the title holders beat Napoli 3-1 away later Sunday to go three points clear -- their victory down to a pair of stunning strikes from Paul Pogba and Arturo Vidal and a rare goal from Martin Caceres.
The earlier draw was a blow to Lazio's slim title hopes, left nine points adrift in third place
Man Utd stunned
In the English Premier League, Manchester United's title challenge also suffered a massive setback, losing 1-0 at Old Trafford to Southampton.
In a lackluster affair, Dusan Tadic's second-half goal gave the visitors a vital three points to leapfrog United into third in the standings.
Juan Mata wasted two fine chances to level for Louis van Gaal's side, which was seeing its 11-match unbeaten run ended.
Earlier, Alexis Sanchez scored twice for Arsenal who beat Stoke 3-0 at the Emirates to move into fifth spot in the battle for Champions League places.
Messi stars for Barca
Lionel Messi set up goals for Neymar and Luis Suarez and scored the clinching third as Barcelona grabbed a crucial 3-1 win over La Liga champions Atletico Madrid.
Messi, the subject of speculation about his future at the Nou Camp, also conceded the penalty which gave Atletico hope when he was adjudged to have brought down Jesus Gamez.
Mario Mandzukic scored from the spot to cut Barca's lead to 2-1, but Messi scored from close range to seal three points for his team which leaves them a point behind leaders Real Madrid.
Both Barcelona and Atletico, now four points adrift, has played a game more than Real.
