(CNN)  -- Home favorite Rafael Nadal was watched by a galaxy of football stars as he reached the third round of the Madrid Open with a straight sets win over Ukrainian qualifier Oleksandr Dolgopolov on Wednesday.
Real Madrid stars past and present Cristiano Ronaldo, Raul and Zinedine Zidane were courtside at the Caja Magica to see the world number three battle to a 6-4 6-3 win.
The second seed, who did not have things all his own way against Dolgopolov, will now face giant U.S. star John Isner, who struggled past Colombian qualifier Santiago Giraldo 1-6 7-6 6-3.
Nadal is playing on home clay in his final tournament before the French Open where he hopes to regain the title, won last year by Roger Federer and claim his fifth grand slam triumph at Roland Garros.
Earlier, world number five Andy Roddick's preparations for the second grand slam of the year suffered a setback as he was forced to pull out of his match against Spain's Feliciano Lopez with a nasty stomach bug.
"I got here, and then on Sunday night through Monday evening I was up with a stomach virus. I was up for 24 hours vomiting, sweating, the whole deal, " Roddick told the official ATP Tour Web site.
Roddick has not played since winning the Miami Masters last month and said the illness had come at just the wrong time.
"It's very bad timing. I would've taken this virus any time in the last five weeks instead of now, but I guess that's the way it goes sometimes," he said.
"Playing well in Paris isn't totally out of the question, it's just going to be a little tough," he added.
In the evening session, Britain's Andy Murray, seeded third showed improved form on clay with a 6-3 6-3 win over Juan Ignacio Chela, his fourth straight win over the Argentine.
"I was pleased with the win," said Murray. "I served well and was able to move him around the court."
Meanwhile, Munich Open winner Mikhail Youzhny made an early exit to Latvian Ernest Gulbis 7-6 6-4 and 15th seed Stanislas Wawrinka set up a third-round showdown with world number one and Swiss compatriot Roger Federer after beating Leonardo Mayer, who was down 6-4 4-2 when he retired.
