Michael Owen scored his first goal for Manchester United, and fellow-striker Wayne Rooney his 100th, as the English Premier League champions returned to winning form with a thumping 5-0 victory at Wigan on Saturday.
Michael Owen celebrates his first Manchester United goal as the English champions thumped Wigan 5-0.
Meanwhile, Arsenal top the table on goal difference after making it 10 goals from just two matches with a 4-1 home win over bottom-of-the-table Portsmouth.
But all eyes were on United, after their stunning 1-0 midweek defeat at newly-promoted Burnley, and Alex Ferguson's side endured a frustrating first 45 minutes against determined opponents.
However, Rooney finally made the breakthrough in the 56th minute with a fine header from former Wigan winger Antonio Valencia's cross
From then on, United were always in control. They doubled their lead two minutes later when Dimitar Berbatov cheekily chipped the ball over goalkeeper Chris Kirkland before finding the net with his second touch.
Rooney added his second, and United's third in the 65th minute with a shot that deflected off defender Mario Melchiot.
The England striker then made way for compatriot Owen, who broke his United duck with five minutes remaining with a cool finish after being set-up by Nani.
Portuguese Nani had the final word with a superb free-kick in stoppage time  that sailed over a stranded Kirkland's head.
Arsenal followed up last weekend's 6-1 win at Everton by thumping Portsmouth, who have now lost all three of their matches, at the Emirates Stadium.
The Gunners took an 18th-minute lead when Abou Diaby smashed home Eduardo's cut-back  and the French midfielder added a second when he slotted home a Cesc Fabregas pass.
Portsmouth pulled a goal back before half-time when Younes Kaboul took advantage of hesitancy by goalkeeper Manuel Almunia to head home a Madir Belhadj cross.
The home side restored their two-goal lead in the 51st minute when William Gallas, who scored a fortunate goal against Celtic in midweek, was again lucky to deflect a Thomas Vermaelen volley over the line.
Substitute Aaron Ramsey beat the offside trap to make it 4-1 on 69 minutes when he latched onto Robin van Persie's slide-rule pass.
Former Arsenal striker Emmanuel Adebayor scored for the second successive weekend to help big-spending Manchester City make it two wins out of two with a narrow 1-0 victory at home to newly-promoted Wolves.
The Togo striker crashed home a Carlos Tevez pass to secure the points for Mark Hughes' side.
Kenwyne Jones scored twice as Sunderland recovered from going a goal behind to beat Blackburn 2-1 at the Stadium of Light.
French defender Gael Givet gave Blackburn the lead when he thumped home a left-footed shot through a crowded penalty area.
But Jones levelled when he rounded goalkeeper Paul Robinson and slotted home into an empty net and the Trinidad striker nodded home the winner in the 54th-minute from Lee Cattermole's cross.
Kamel Ghilas scored his first goal for the club to give Hull their opening win of the season, 1-0 at home to Bolton, while Birmingham and Stoke shared a 0-0 draw in the day's other match.
