Late goals from Brazilian duo David Luiz and Ramires gave Chelsea a 2-0 home win over Manchester City in the English Premier League on Sunday.
A 78th-minute header from January signing Luiz and a fine solo effort by Ramires in time added on meant the London club moved into third place above City, a point clear having played one less match.
The English champions are now four points behind second-placed Arsenal and nine adrift of league leaders Manchester United, who beat Bolton 1-0 on Saturday.
City, hoping to reach for the European Champions League for the first time next season, are four points ahead of fifth-placed Tottenham -- but Roberto Mancini's team have played one more game than the team who pipped them to the final qualifying position last season.
Ten-man United extend English lead
The result was a deserved one for Chelsea, who dominated a lackluster City side missing injured captain and top scorer Carlos Tevez.
After a frustrating goalless first half, the home side came alive after the break and defender Luiz netted the crucial opener with just 12 minutes of play remaining with a header from substitute Didier Drogba's well-flighted set-piece.
The 23-year-old Luiz, who has looked a bargain buy since joining from Portugal's Benfica in a $35 million deal, won the free-kick after some nimble footwork.
Drogba had come on to replace $80 million striker Fernando Torres, who has now yet to score after seven appearances for his new club.
Chelsea looked to be home and dry after Luiz's goal, but Ramires made sure as he waltzed into the penalty area and fired an impressive strike past City goalkeeper Joe Hart in the dying seconds.
Earlier, City's best attempt at goal came from Yaya Toure, but his shot was easily blocked by Peter Cech, and the Ivory Coast midfielder was later replaced by striker Mario Balotelli after suffering an injury.
In the day's other match, sixth-placed Liverpool kept their hopes of playing European football next season alive with victory by the same score away to 10-man Sunderland.
Holland striker Dirk Kuyt gave Liverpool a first-half lead from the penalty spot, as Sunderland's Ghana defender John Mensah fouled Jay Spearing in the box just after half an hour.
The referee had initially awarded a free-kick for the incident but changed his mind after consultation with the linesman, much to the anger of the home players and fans.
The Reds' second goal came in the 77th minute courtesy of Uruguay forward Luis Suarez, who found the net from an impossible angle.
Mensah was shown a straight red for pulling back Suarez six minutes later, leaving the Black Cats a man down for the remainder of the game.
With Liverpool having been knocked out of the Europa League on Thursday, the win gave Kenny Dalglish's team hope of catching Tottenham to secure a berth for next season.
Champions League quarterfinalists Tottenham have a four-point buffer, and have played 29 games to Liverpool's 30.
A run of seven games without a win has left Sunderland in ninth position with eight games remaining, having been as high as sixth earlier this season.
Meanwhile, Rangers won the Scottish League Cup for the 27th time with a 2-1 victory over Glasgow rivals Celtic after extra-time on Sunday.
Croatian striker Nikica Jelavic scored the winner in the 98th minute, while Celtic's Honduras defender Emilio Izaguirre was sent off at the end.
