Rafael Cabrera-Bello defied a clutch of big names to land the Dubai Desert Classic Sunday after a final round four-under 68 at the Emirates Golf Club.
It was enough to give the 27-year-old Spaniard a one-shot win ahead of overnight leader Lee Westwood and Scotland's Stephen Gallacher.
Both Westwood and Gallacher had putts on the final green to force a playoff but missed to leave Cabrera-Bello to celebrate the biggest win of his career with an 18-under total of 270.
World No.3 Westwood, now three times a runner-up in Dubai, opened up a two-shot lead early in the final round when he eagled the second.
But the Englishman struggled on the greens in difficult and breezy conditions.
Other big names also faltered, with World No.2 Rory McIlroy dropping three shots to the turn before staging a late recovery to tie for fifth on 14-under.
The U.S. Open champion had led at halfway with Thomas Bjorn of Denmark on 13-under, but finished with rounds of 72 and 71.
Former U.S. PGA champion Martin Kaymer of Germany, who started the final day two shots adrift, missed early birdie chances and fell away with a 74.
Germany's Marcel Siem finished alone in third on 15-under after failing to press
home his challenge on the back nine.
Cabrera-Bello, who led after a first round nine-under 63, was delighted by his performance and his surprise victory.
"I played well throughout the week and I am delighted to finish ahead of such a good field this week. This is unbelievable."
The tournament was the last of the 'Desert Swing' on the European Tour, also taking in Abu Dhabi and Qatar.
Robert Rock of England upstaged Tiger Woods to win the first tournament with Scotland's Paul Lawrie claiming victory in Doha.
Meanwhile, Woods is four shots behind third round leader Charlie Wi going into the last day of the Pebble Beach Pro-Am in California.
Woods, still seeking his first full-field tournament win in over two years, shot a five-under 67 for third place,
He will be paired with arch-rival Phil Mickelson, who is in a five-strong group tied for fourth at nine-under.
Wi will partner second-placed Ken Duke, who is three shots behind, in the final round.
