Paul Pogba was the man Manchester United never wanted to lose -- now he's beginning to show why as he fired Juventus four points clear at the top of Serie A.
Pogba struck a 92nd minute winner to see off lowly Bologna and help Juve claim a 2-1 win to make it nine victories from ten league games.
The 19-year-old caused shockwaves after rejecting the chance to remain at Old Trafford and instead sign a four-year deal with the Italian club.
The horror of Heysel: Football's forgotten tragedy?
Fabio Quagliarella had given the home side a 54th minute lead only for Bologna to hit back through Saphir Taidi.
But Pogba fired home in stoppage-time to give his side all three points and help take advantage of Napoli's surprise defeat.
Napoli, who began the night in second, went down 1-0 at Atalanta, courtesy of Carlos Carmona's first-half strike.
That result allowed Inter Milan to move into third place after it came from behind to see off Sampdoria 3-2.
Gianni Munari had given Sampdoria a 20th minute lead but Diego Milito grabbed his 200th career goal to bring his side level.
Rodrigo Palacio and Freddy Guarin then put Inter in the driving seat and despite Eder grabbing a late consolation, the hosts held on to take the points.
Lazio was held to a 1-1 draw by Torino as it slipped to fourth but it sits four points clear of fifth place Fiorentina.
Parma moved up to sixth position following a 3-2 victory over Roma.
Ishak Belfodil scored and was sent off as the hosts came from behind to see off a Roma side, which had taken an early lead through Erik Lamela.
Belfodil equalised before Marco Parolo and Cristian Zaccardo put Parma 3-1 ahead with Francesco Totti's strike failing to bring Roma a reward.
Elsewhere, Cagliari overcame Siena 4-2, Chievo defeated Pescara 2-0 and Udinese was held to a 2-2 draw by Catania.
In Spain's Copa del Rey, Real Madrid carved out a 4-1 win away at Alcoyano.
Karim Benzema scored twice, while Kaka and Jose Rodriguez were also on target for the Spanish champions.
Champions League contenders Malaga was given a tough test by minnow Cacereño as it sneaked a 4-3 win.
Malaga's malady: When foreign ownership goes wrong
The Primera Liga giant had led 2-0 before the home side rallied to level before half-time.
Roque Santa Cruz's second of the night and a Duda strike appeared to have killed off Cacereño, which had Pablo Vargas sent off.
But the Segunda B side refused to give in and Carlos Esteve's 87th minute strike reduced the deficit to just a single goal going into the second leg.
There was no such problem for Atletico Madrid as it cruised to a 3-0 victory at ten-man Real Jaen.
Diego Costa, Adrian and Raul Garcia were on target for the visitors, while Dani Torres was sent off after just 26 minutes for Real.
Elsewhere, Las Palmas edged out Rayo Vallecano 1-0, while Real Zaragoza triumphed over Granada by the same scoreline.
Almeria recorded a two-goal advantage in its first leg after defeating Celta Vigo 2-0.
Bayern unbeaten run in Bundesliga halted by Bayer Leverkusen
In Germany's DFB Pokal, Bayern Munich cruised to a 4-0 win over Kaiserslautern thanks to two goals each from Claudio Pizarro and Arjen Robben.
