The last time Wales won a Six Nations rugby international at England's home stronghold, the team went on to claim the 2008 title and complete a grand slam of victories against all competing countries.
Four years on, Warren Gatland's men are looking odds-on to repeat that success after snatching a 19-12 victory at Twickenham on Saturday for a third successive win in this year's tournament.
Substitute Scott Williams' moment of late individual brilliance helped Wales come from 12-6 down, and a desperate try-saving tackle in the corner by fellow center Jonathan Davies condemned defending champions England to a first defeat under interim coach Stuart Lancaster.
The Welsh were the best of the British nations at last year's World Cup, reaching the semifinals before a heartbreaking defeat against eventual runners-up France in which captain Sam Warburton was sent off.
England, however, had a disappointing time on and off the pitch, losing to France in the quarterfinals before an investigation into a series of incidents involving the players ended with 2003 World Cup winner Martin Johnson standing down as coach and ructions in the boardroom.
Lancaster made a positive start with his new-look team, grinding out wins against Scotland and Italy, and four penalties from young new fly-half Owen Farrell gave the coach hope of another victory.
However, Wales fought back from the second-half sin-binning of Farrell's opposing No. 10 Rhys Priestland and drew level with fullback Leigh Halfpenny's fourth successful kick.
Then Williams stole the show in the 76th minute as he ripped the ball away from England replacement Courtney Lawes, kicked downfield and gathered the ball for the game's only try, which Halfpenny converted.
England roared back down the other end and threatened to score, but after spinning the ball out wide to the right, winger David Strettle was held up over the line -- forcing a decision from the video referee, which went in Wales' favor.
"We knew it would be the toughest game and it was so tough. We are over the moon to get the Triple Crown here," Warburton said after his team followed up victories over Scotland and Ireland.
"I am not going to say what the last team who won here in 2008 went on to do but people involved with that team say we have a really strong squad this time around. However, we will set aside thoughts of that and the Italy game in a fortnight and enjoy this for the moment."
Earlier on Saturday, Ireland ended a run of three home defeats by beating Italy 42-10 in Dublin for the 2009 champions' first win this season.
Winger Tommy Bowe scored two of his side's five tries, while Jonathon Sexton kicked 17 points as the visitors lost for the third successive time.
France -- the only other unbeaten team so far, albeit after having played only one game -- will visit winless Scotland on Sunday. Les Bleus' postponed match against Ireland will take place next weekend while the other nations rest.
