A late equalizer from Jo ensured Manchester City got the draw they needed at Italian giants Juventus to top their Europa League group, but holders Atletico Madrid are out.
The English Premier League side, deprived of Argentina striker Carlos Tevez who handed in a transfer request last week, fell behind on 43 minutes when Niccolo Giannetti tapped home Alessandro Del Piero's cross.
But England winger Adam Johnson found Jo with a defence-splitting pass in the 77th minute and the Brazilian made no mistake from inside the penalty area. It meant Juventus, who were already out of the competition, drew all six of their matches.
After the game City manager Roberto Mancini told reporters: Mancini said: "I am very happy, because we wanted this, and it was very important to finish top of the group.
"We have a chance to go all the way, but it is important to have a good draw for the next round, and after that we will see."
City's point sees them finish top of Group A, ahead of Lech Poznan on goal difference. The Polish side won 1-0 against Salzburg, of Austria, thanks to Semir Stilic's goal.
Atletico Madrid, who won last year's Europa League, were knocked out after a 1-1 draw in Germany with Bayer Leverkusen. Patrick Helmes put the hosts in front before Fran Merida leveled shortly after.
The Spanish club had to better Aris Salonika's result against Rosenborg to go through but failed on both counts after Aris triumphed 2-0 and clinched second place.
Lille took second place in Group C from Belgian side Gent with a 3-0 victory in France. Ludovic Obraniak, Pierre-Alain Frau and Moussa Sow all found the net.
Levski Sofia, from Bulgaria, claimed their second victory in the competition with a 1-0 win over Sporting Lisbon. The Portuguese club had already qualified as group winners.
In Group G, Russian outfit Zenit St Petersburg maintained their perfect record with a 3-0 win over AEK Athens of Greece. Alexander Bukharov, Alessandro Rosina and Igor Denisov were all on target.
Belgian club Anderlecht compounded AEK's misery by securing qualification in second place after a 2-0 victory over Hadjuk Split of Croatia. They went through by virtue of a better goal difference.
Matters had already been decided in Group H and German side VfB Stuttgart maintained their impressive form with a 5-1 thumping of Odense, from Denmark. Russian striker Pavel Pogrebniak was on target as they finished top.
Switzerland's Young Boys were beaten 1-0 in Spain by Getafe thanks to Adrian Corpa's goal but finished two points clear in second place.
In Group I, Sampdoria's miserable run continued as the Italian side went down 2-0 to Debrecen of Hungary. Peter Kabat grabbed both goals.
Dutch side PSV Eindhoven finished top of the group after a 0-0 draw with Metalist Kharkiv. The Ukrainian club go through in second place.
