Wedding bells rang for three different celebrity couples over Labor Day weekend.
In Miami, basketball star Dwyane Wade tied the knot with actress Gabrielle Union on Saturday, the same weekend that Ashlee Simpson -- the musical younger sister of Jessica Simpson -- reportedly wed Diana Ross' actor son Evan in Connecticut, and Donnie Wahlberg said "I do" to Jenny McCarthy.
Wade and Union, who've been an item since 2008, set their nuptials apart with the hashtag #thewadeunion, which they used to share their special moment with fans.
"Happy," a smiling Union wrote on Instagram Saturday. "All my loved ones are in town... Today is a good day... I must say I'm feeling blessed and humbled and just freakin happy."
She later posted a photo of the newly bound Wade-Union family, which includes Wade's nephew and his two sons from his prior marriage.
Union, 41, wore a strapless Dennis Basso gown that she helped design. "Thank you thank you thank you @DennisBasso for helping me design THE most perfect gowns for the most special night of my life... So grateful... So happy," the actress posted on Instagram with a photo of her wedding day look.
Not to be outdone, Miami Heat star Wade, 32, was heavily involved in the wedding planning, including securing his look for the evening.
"(Union) had input, but when we started it was 85/15 leading my way," Wade told The New York Times of Saturday's outdoor affair, which had a black-and-white theme and an afterparty. (In the end, the planning duties between Wade and his bride-to-be were more like "70/30.")
Over in Connecticut, Simpson and Ross reportedly tied the knot at Diana Ross' home. According to People magazine, the ceremony was attended by close friends and family, including Simpson's sister, Jessica, and Simpson's 5-year-old son Bronx Mowgli, whose father is her ex-husband Pete Wentz.
Simpson, 29, and Ross, 26, were first linked back in July 2013, and announced their engagement in January.
Closing out the love-filled holiday weekend was New Kids on the Block star Wahlberg and former "The View" personality McCarthy, who swapped vows in Chicago. Wahlberg's brother, actor Mark, couldn't attend, but he did send the couple his best wishes in a video on Facebook.
Wahlberg's NKOTB bandmates, including Jordan Knight and Joey McIntyre, were in attendance, along with McCarthy's former "View" co-host Sherri Shepherd.
It was on the ABC talk show that McCarthy, 41, announced her engagement to Wahlberg, 45, in April. This is the second marriage for both.
