A 30-year-old Michigan doctor who has been missing for almost a month was accused in September of stalking gospel artist Marvin Sapp, court records show.
Teleka Patrick failed to show up for work in Kalamazoo on December 6. The night before, police 100 miles south in Indiana found her car abandoned in a ditch off busy Interstate 94.
Sapp, who has been nominated for eight Grammys, filed a personal protection order against her, in which he complains that Patrick "has claimed him as her husband, had moved from California to Michigan, joined his church, had contacted his children and had been to his home.
"I have at least 400 pages of correspondence from her which I have never responded," his complaint reads.
Patrick's family recognized that questions have arisen regarding the missing woman's mental health, but said the focus must remain on finding her.
"We are aware of media reports that are beginning to focus on Teleka's mental health, and while we encourage the pursuit of honest journalism and truth, we will not take part in sensationalizing Teleka's disappearance," the family said in a statement on Facebook.
"We believe that she has met with foul play and wholeheartedly believe that she is in danger," the statement said.
So far, investigators have little evidence in the missing person case.
Two home videos uploaded to YouTube feature Patrick talking, cooing and singing to someone unnamed and apparently unknown.
Patrick's mother told CNN she wasn't aware of any romantic relationship her daughter may have had. But the videos have an intimate feel to them.
"Hi, baby," Patrick says in one. "I am just coming to you to say 'hi' and tell you about my day."
In another video, Patrick shows a table set for two with omelets and pancakes.
"If you were here, this is what would be your plate," she coos.
The two videos were posted in early November.
A third video to surface came from a local hotel in Kalamazoo. That's where Patrick went the night of December 5, just hours before police found her car in the ditch in Indiana.
Videos raise more questions about missing doctor
At a little past 7:30 p.m., Patrick, dressed all in black, showed up at a Radisson hotel not far from the hospital where she worked.
She spent around 10 minutes talking with employees at the reception desk but ultimately left.
There's no audio on the video, and it's not clear why Patrick failed to book a room.
But at 7:48 p.m., she strode across the hotel's tiled floors, out the door and onto a hotel shuttle bus.
Those images provide the last known picture of Patrick.
Her family says Patrick, who had just moved to Michigan, bought a plane ticket to come visit them for the holidays in Florida.
Her colleagues called her "part of our family of medical professionals."
Investigators have said they have no evidence of foul play, but they also don't have conclusive evidence that Patrick's movements on December 5 were voluntary.
Police brought out dogs to track Patrick's scent. They led investigators the 30 or so feet out of the ditch where Patrick's car rested to the highway. There, the trace went cold.
