(CNN Student News) -- August 12, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What is the most effective format for delivering advice: through an article, through recorded video, or in person? What are the pros and cons of each?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these key terms you heard in today's show:
1. embassy
2. ideology
3. decibel
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. The American embassy in which country did not reopen yesterday due to security concerns?
2. Mohamed Morsy is the former president of what African nation?
3. Which planet is also known as the "red planet"?
Discussion Questions:
1. What factors do you think were considered when deciding to close certain U.S. embassies? What might have led to decisions to reopen most of them?
2. What characteristics or abilities do you think might be important in a space colonist? Would you want to take a one-way trip to Mars? Why or why not?
3. What are your thoughts on the advice for freshmen given in today's program? What advice would you have for students who are entering the grade you just completed?
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Yemen
Egypt
Wisconsin
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
