Elytte Barbour said Wednesday that his teenage bride's assertion she'd killed more than 22 people -- including one allegedly with him -- hasn't changed the way he feels about her.
"I still love her," Barbour said.
Barbour talked exclusively with CNN from a secure line at the Columbia County Prison in central Pennsylvania, where he's awaiting trial -- along with his 19-year-old wife, Miranda Barbour -- after police alleged the couple lured a man using a Craigslist ad, strangled and stabbed him 20 times, then dumped his body.
Since then, Miranda Barbour told a newspaper reporter that she had killed more than 22 but fewer 100 people over the past six years. Based on that information relayed to Daily Item reporter Francis Scarcella, she would have killed a different person every three weeks to three months, on average, starting around age 13.
If true, this would make Miranda Barbour one of the United States' most prolific serial killers.
Northumberland County, Pennsylvania, District Attorney Tony Rosini, the prosecutor who is aiming to convict the Barbours in the 2013 Craigslist killing of 42-year-old Troy LaFerrara, has discounted her claims. And Alaska State Troopers have said her claims don't bear out in that state, one of several (with Texas, North Carolina and California) where Miranda Barbour told the Daily Item she had killed.
In his jailhouse interview, 22-year-old Elytte Barbour acknowledged, "Everyone wants to know about her credibility."
Asked whether his wife was upfront with him regarding specific names or locations of the alleged murders, Barbour said, "It was about 50/50."
He declined to comment on whether her confessions are valid. Elytte Barbour did speak, though, about his own interactions with authorities.
"Let's put it this way: I've been more than cooperative with every police force I've had contact with so far," he said.
While saying it "wouldn't be best" to discuss certain things, Barbour did say that he planned to meet with federal authorities "in the coming week or two."
"It seems like I have my life or death on the line right now," he added.
According to a police affidavit in connection with LaFerrara's November 2013 death, Miranda Barbour initially denied knowing him only to later confess after being presented with evidence police had gathered. So, too, did her husband.
"The defendant stated that they committed the murder because they just wanted to murder someone together," police said, referring to Elytte Barbour.
The couple face a host of charges -- including criminal homicide, which is similar to first-degree murder -- tied to LaFerrara's death.
The father of Barbour's 1-year-old child is dead, and police in Sunbury, Pennsylvania -- the small city located 130 miles northwest of Philadelphia where LaFerrara's body was found in a backyard -- have said that is part of their investigation.
Among claims that authorities have to corroborate is Miranda Barbour saying she was involved in Satanism. That assertion raised questions among attorneys, missing persons experts and even a representative of the Church of Satan, the nation's largest satanic body.
"Thorough investigation will likely demonstrate that this cult story is fiction," said Peter Gilmore, the New York-based head of the Church of Satan.
CNN's Chris Welch and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
