Tokyo Electric Power Co., the company that owns the crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, said Tuesday it is going to stick to its previously announced timetable of six to nine months in bringing an end to the crisis.
But the company says it will have to change strategies in cooling the No. 1 reactor after it learned last week that water levels in the reactor were much lower than previously  believed.
Tokyo Electric first laid out the six to nine month timetable for bringing an end to the crisis in mid-April.
But the company said last week that the water levels in the No. 1 reactor were much lower than previously believed, and that it suspects the fuel rods had melted and fallen into the coolant at the base of the reactor pressure vessel.
The company also said it suspects that the pressure vessel was leaking fluid into the surrounding concrete containment vessel.
It was not clear where the leak was located or how bad it was, but the discovery could complicate efforts to restore normal cooling systems in the reactor.
Three reactors at Fukushima Daiichi overheated after the plant was struck by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, which knocked out the units' cooling systems and unleashed the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.
Over the weekend, residents began evacuating from two villages which had originally been outside the danger zone drawn around the plant. The towns of Iitate and Kawamata were downwind of the plant in the early days of the disaster, and radiation levels there are high enough to raise the long-term risk of cancer for those remaining, the government said.
"I know that they are having to endure great hardships, and their life in evacuation going forward will be a very harsh one," Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters Monday. "We truly regret that this had to happen."
Radiation levels in Iitate, about 40 km northwest of the plant, were nearly 40 times normal background levels Monday, according to data released by the country's Science Ministry. Someone who spent eight hours a day outside would get the government's maximum allowable dose of 20 millisieverts in about six months at those levels.
Residents of those towns and all or part of three others were given orders to start packing in April. Five more areas have been put on notice to await evacuation orders, and the government says it will decide whether those residents will be allowed to return around the time the crisis is resolved.
CNN's Kyung  Lah and Matt Smith contributed to this report.
