Ferrari have admitted their approach to the 2011 Formula One season has been too conservative, after the Italian team failed to register a podium finish in the first three races of the year.
Fernando Alonso and Felipe Massa, are fifth and sixth respectively in the drivers' standings, with the former trailing current leader and reigning world champion Sebastian Vettel by 42 points.
The legendary marque's team principal Stefano Domenicali said the problems stem back to the design of the Italia 150 car.
"Our approach was not aggressive enough at the design stage," the 45-year-old told Ferrari's official web site.
"There was a problem with the correlation between data gathered from the wind tunnel and what we saw on track so this did the damage in these first few months."
Domenicali, who has been with Ferrari since 1991, said the team's form must improve ahead of three races in four weeks, starting with the Turkish Grand Prix on Sunday.
"If there is one thing you don't want to do, it's panic as it definitely does not help you do better.
"Now we are about to tackle three races in four weeks: it will be important to show that we are back on form and to make it to the podium, something that has escaped us in all of the first three races of the season."
Ferrari's chief designer Nikolas Tombazis has called for a more aggressive approach in order to move Ferrari up the grid, and he claimed the current car cannot challenge Red Bull and McLaren's dominance.
"We have tried to see if our approach was too conservative and we realized that, for various reasons, we were neither reactive nor aggressive enough in the development stages," Tombazis told the sport's official web site.
"At the moment, we don't have a winning car and, on those of our competitors we can see innovative solutions introduced in a more aggressive fashion than we have done.
"Maybe we were a bit too passive in our approach. We did not push hard enough in some areas of development and unfortunately, the results can be seen on track."
Ferrari have won the constructors' championship on 16 occasions and provided 15 drivers' champions since making their debut in the sport in 1950.
