Cape Verde and Ethiopia showed over the weekend that David remains very capable of dealing Goliath a knockout blow in international football as both nations advanced to the 2013 Africa Cup of Nations.
Cameroon missed out on a second successive Cup of Nations tournament after a 3-2 aggregate defeat to Cape Verde, which has a population of 500,000.
Trailing 2-0 following last week's first-leg loss in Praia, the Indomitable Lions fell further behind when striker Heldon Nhuck gave Cape Verde a surprise 1-0 lead in the Cameroonian capital of Yaounde.
Achille Emana equalized for Cameroon before half-time but, despite boasting the attacking talent of former Barcelona and Inter Milan striker Samuel Eto'o, the home team were unable to find the back of the net.
A late goal from 16-year-old debutant Fabrice Olinga, who is a graduate of the "Samuel Eto'o Foundation", finally put Cameroon ahead in the match, but it wasn't enough to prevent Cape Verde reaching their Africa Cup of Nations.
Also through to January's 16-team tournament in South Africa is Ethiopia, who beat Sudan 2-0 to advance on away goals, to reach the tournament for the first time in 30 year.
Ethiopia lost the first leg 5-3, but progressed courtesy of goals from Adane Girma and Saladin Seid in Addis Ababa.
The tournament, won by Zambia in 2012, is ordinarily held every two years, but it is being staged in 2013 to avoid the competition clashing with future World Cups and the European Championships.
Angola overturned a 3-1 first-leg deficit to beat Zimbabwe on away goals. Former Manchester United striker Manucho scored two headed goals inside the first eight minutes to give his country a 2-0 win.
Algeria eased through with a 2-0 victory at home to Libya, wrapping up a 3-0 aggregate success.
This edition of the tournament had been due to be staged in Libya, but it was switched to South Africa due to the civil uprising in the country.
Burkina Faso reached a third consecutive Cup of Nations by beating Central African Republic 3-2 on aggregate.
Central African Republic went 2-0 ahead in the tie and 1-0 up in the match before the hosts replied through Alain Troare.
Moumouni Dagano scored from the penalty spot to make it 2-2 on aggregate before Traore scored his second and Burkina Faso's third to deny Central African Republic a first Cup of Nations appearance.
A goal from Tottenham Hotspur striker Emmanuel Adebayor proved crucial for Togo, who won Sunday's second leg against Gabon 2-1 to seal a 3-2 aggregate success.
Niger and Equatorial Guinea complete the tournament line-up following victories against Guinea and Democratic Republic of Congo respectively.
The draw for the 29th Africa Cup of Nations will take place in the South African city of Durban on October 24.
