Lagos, Nigeria (CNN)  -- Nigeria's acting head of state has urged citizens to maintain peace and stability while the nation's ailing president recuperates after more than three months at a Saudi Arabia hospital.
Vice President Goodluck Jonathan's comments came after President Umaru Yar'Adua returned home early Wednesday, but his condition is unknown.
He left Nigeria in November for treatment for inflammation of tissue around his heart, creating a power vacuum in Africa's most populous nation for months.
Nigerian lawmakers voted earlier this month to install Jonathan as acting head of state.
On Wednesday, Jonathan assured Nigerians "that the ship of state is on course" and lauded Yar'Adua's return, but did not give details on his condition.
"It is at times like this that all patriots must rise to the occasion, and place the interest of the country above every other consideration," the acting president said in a statement.
Jonathan will continue to oversee the nation as the president recuperates, but his health has "greatly improved," said presidential spokesman Olusegun Adeniyi.
Yar'Adua's absence sparked protests in the capital, Abuja, where demonstrators demanded a constitutional order on his absence and evidence about his condition.
During his absence, some incidents in the west African nation sparked international headlines, prompting more backlash. A Nigerian man was charged with attempting to bring down a U.S.-bound plane on Christmas Day. A cease-fire Yar'Adua had spear-headed with militants also started unraveling, and religious conflict in the city of Jos killed hundreds.
Yar'Adua's return sparked fears of more instability in the oil-rich nation.
A statement from the U.S. State Department hailed the news, but said it hoped his return was not an effort by his advisers to topple stability and renew uncertainty in the democratic process.
"Nigeria is an extraordinarily important country to its friends and partners, and all those in positions of responsibility should put the health of the president and the best interests of the country and people of Nigeria above personal ambition or gain," Assistant Secretary of State Johnnie Carson said in a statement.
"As a nation of 150 million people, Nigeria's democracy and its continued adherence to constitutional rule should be the highest priority," the statement added.
CNN's Christian Purefoy contributed to this report.
