Germany coach Joachim Low has ended speculation over his future by signing a two-year contract extension in the wake of a successful World Cup campaign.
Low's assistant coach Hansi Flick, goalkeeping coach Andreas Kopke and national team manager Oliver Bierhoff have also signed on for a further two years.
The 50-year-old's previous four-year deal expired on June 30. Talks on extending it had initially stalled in February, reportedly over financial details, and Low's desire for more control over the Under-21 Germany side.
But the new deal will now see Low take on the task of helping Germany qualify for the 2012 European Championships in Poland and Ukraine, after his team finished third at the World Cup.
"We are all pleased that we can continue our work with the national team," he told the German Football Federation's (DFB) official website.
"Our team has excellent sporting prospects and it is a big challenge for us to be able to get stuck into the preparations for Euro 2012 after the successful World Cup in South Africa.
"In order to be able to achieve our main goals in the near future, we need the continued hard and consistent work from everyone."
The DFB president Theo Zwanziger announced his delight at securing the futures of Low and his backroom staff.
"I'm happy for German football that we have been able to solve the most important personnel decisions in the national team so quickly and confidentially," he told the federation's official website.
"The signature of the Bundestrainers for this young team is immensely important."
Zwanziger was keen to extend Low's position as coach of Germany after the former Stuttgart manager guided his country to third in South Africa.
Low's young Germany side won rave reviews as they thrashed England and Argentina before losing to eventual winners Spain in the semifinals.
The team finished the tournament with a bronze medal after beating Uruguay 3-2 in a third-place playoff.
Many players on the Germany team impressed, none more so than forward Thomas Muller, 20, who won the Golden Boot and the best young player award.
Low, who has won 38 out of 55 matches since succeeding Jurgen Klinsmann in 2006, also guided Germany to the final of the European Championships of 2008 in Austria and Switzerland, where they were defeated 1-0 by Spain.
Germany's first qualifying match for Euro 2012 will be against Belgium in Brussels on September 3.
