(CNN)There's one big debut and several finales coming up in a busy week of television.
The newest late night entry is one of six things we think you should tune in to this week.
1. 'The Late Late Show with James Corden,' Monday to Friday, 12:35 a.m. ET, CBS
Who is James Corden, you might ask? He's a household name in the United Kingdom, best known here for "Into the Woods" and "Doctor Who."
He's also the brand-new host of the CBS "Late Late Show," replacing Craig Ferguson.
His first show promises a fresh take on late night talk shows, especially with avant garde comedian and rapper Reggie Watts leading the house band.
So far, Corden already has scored quite a coup for his first show: Tom Hanks will be his first guest.
With so many late night shows out there, Corden hopes he can stand out thanks to his time slot.
"I think in the time slot we're in, we have a carte blanche in a way to make a looser show and for it to feel like a more fun environment," Corden told The Hollywood Reporter.
If Corden's promos are any indication, we're in for something different.
2. 'Pretty Little Liars,' Tuesday, 8 p.m. ET, ABC Family
After five seasons, 120 episodes, 123 texts and nine deaths, fans will find out just who has been tormenting the "liars" all this time: The identity of "A" will be revealed!
At least that's what ABC Family promises for Tuesday night's season finale.
3. 'The Mindy Project,' Tuesday, 9:30 p.m. ET, Fox
This season has been a big one for doctor Mindy Lahiri (Mindy Kaling) -- she moved to California and she's having a baby after all. Little has been revealed about this week's season finale, but the episode's title, "Best Man," suggests there could be a wedding involved.
4. 'Inspector Gadget,' Friday, Netflix
Go Gadget go! A brand new series for a new generation hits Netflix this week. Little has been revealed about Netflix's foray into kids' programming with a dash of nostalgia.
5. 'Hart of Dixie,' Friday, 8:00 p.m. ET, CW
The Rachel Bilson primetime soap airs what could be its final episode.
6. 'Saturday Night Live,' Saturday, 11:29 p.m. ET, NBC
After three weeks off, "SNL" returns with "Furious 7" star Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson hosting this week's show with musical guest George Ezra.
