Usually in Washington it's Republicans and Democrats battling each other but on Thursday night they joined together to battle a common enemy: the Washington Press Corps.
In the third annual Congressional Women's Softball game, members from both sides of the aisle came together to play the Capitol Hill Press Corps to raise about $50,000 for the Young Survival Coalition, a group that assists young women facing breast cancer.
Rep. Laura Richardson, D-California, started things off with a three-run home run in the first inning but the press women came back to eventually tie things up in the top of the 6th inning, 4-4.
The nail biter went down to the bottom of the 7th and last inning. CNN's Erika Dimmler made an incredible outfield somersault catch to make it two outs but then Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Florida, came to the plate. Wasserman Schultz, whose jersey simply read "DWS", made the incredible game winning hit, driving in Rep. Linda Sanchez, D-California, to win the game 5-4.
Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor, a long time New York Yankees, fan threw out the first pitch as the crowd cheered her on.
Bipartisanship was in the crowd too as Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, came to cheer on his team as did Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-California, and a number of others including Reps. Jan Schakowsky, D-Illinois, Dennis Kuchinich, D-Ohio, Democratic Caucus Leader John Larsen, D-Connecticut, and Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, D-Maryland.
Players included Congressional team MVP and DNC chair Wasserman Schultz, Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Florida, Jean Schmidt, R-Ohio, Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-New York, Kelly Ayotte, R-New Hampshire, and Kay Hagan D-North Carolina for the Congressional Women's team.
The press team had players from all five television networks and print, including CNN's Brianna Keilar, Abby Livingston, Stephanie Kotuby and Erika Dimmler who won MVP for press team, CBS's Jill Jackson, ABC's Amy Walter and Chicago Sun-Times' Lynn Sweet.
CNN's Senior Congressional Correspondent Dana Bash and Wasserman Schultz started the annual game between Members and Press. But this year Bash could only watch on as honorary coach of her "baby" as she is expecting her own baby next month.
Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minnesota, who repeatedly pointed out that the average age of the Members' team is 53 years old, and NBC's Andrea Mitchell called the game. Mitchell's husband former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan watched on. With all these members, bipartisan spirit, and a win in their column perhaps successful discussions on the debt limit are next?
