(CNN Student News) -- November 6, 2013
On Election Day, some Coloradans considered the idea of seceding from their state. CNN Student News examines why supporters backed this ballot measure despite its likely lack of success. We also report on India's mission to Mars, and we discuss a controversy surrounding a California Sriracha factory. Plus, we share how learning a language might translate into lucrative job opportunities.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might a state referendum be of interest to a national audience? Could national news coverage have an impact on the referendum itself?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. political disenfranchisement
2. Scoville scale
3. language fluency
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Why have some Colorado counties held referendums on whether to secede from the state? What other perspectives does the report give on this issue?
2. What is the destination of an orbiter that India launched yesterday? What arguments are made for and against India's space program?
3. What's the difference between a translator and an interpreter?
Discussion Questions:
1. What factors might lead a country to create a space program? How might the debate over India's space program compare and contrast to that debate in other countries? Explain.
2. What might be the potential pros and cons of having a manufacturing plant in a community? How do you think that the dispute between a hot sauce factory and its neighbors could be resolved?
3. What might be some benefits and challenges of learning another language? Why might learning the culture associated with a language be an important aspect of language fluency? What unique benefits and challenges might come with the job of being an interpreter or translator? Does this field appeal to you? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Colorado; Irwindale, California
Asia
India
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
