"Who is the nicest person you've met in showbiz?" It's a question I'm often asked after nearly 20 years working at CNN.
My encounter with Joe Cocker was relatively brief, but it left a lasting impression of a man who not only contributed a great deal to music, but also conducted himself with a rare professionalism and courtesy.
The date was September 11, 1998, when Joe played Chastain Park Amphitheater in Atlanta -- an open-air venue which accommodates more than 5,000 people, but manages to maintain an intimate atmosphere, festooned with candlelit tables closer to the stage.
It was a humid evening bedeviled by mosquitoes as I stood at the side of that stage with my cameraman awaiting the arrival of the rock legend -- a term with which Joe Cocker always felt uncomfortable.
The plan was for a quick chat for CNN's global music show World Beat before his performance, but Joe was running late and the prospect of the interview was quickly disappearing. A publicist emerged from a side door to warn us that the window for the interview was about to close. He was unusually apologetic and appeared to be sincere.
The singer's big band had already taken to the stage as we stood and watched the flurry of activity as roadies, sound techs and the other members of the touring family attended to last-minute duties. Then a single figure emerged from another doorway and walked briskly through the production area towards us. Dressed in what appeared to me to be a light-colored linen suit, he strode forward, shook our hands and said: "Alright lads, I'm Joe. I'm really sorry to keep you waiting but if it's not too late for you, we can have a chat now."
He answered all the standard questions about his role in rock music, his iconic flailing appearance at Woodstock, the changing face of the business, his latest music, as a handful of increasingly fidgety minders checked their watches and glanced repeatedly over their shoulders. He appeared to consider his answers carefully and chuckled amiably, exhibiting none of the stress of the anxious assistants behind him.
During our last question the band struck up what turned out to be the opening number with a great swell of brass joining the familiar rock sound. The audience cheered but Joe Cocker didn't bat an eyelid and continued with his answer. At its conclusion he smiled and said in the English Yorkshire accent which never left him: "Well lads, it's been great to meet you and I've enjoyed chatting but I'd better be off now -- they're playing my tune."
And with a parting handshake he walked, unhurried, onto the stage and without breaking step, approached the microphone and began to sing, his distinctive voice booming out into the Georgia evening.
A man confident in his craft, unassuming in his demeanor and impeccable in his manners. It shouldn't be remarkable and I won't claim to have got to know the man from such a snapshot moment but it left a very warm first impression of a man whose music has made an impression on millions around the world.
Read more: People we lost: Benjamin Bradlee and Lorin Maazel, by Christiane Amanpour
Read more: People we lost: Phil Everly, by Jonathan Hawkins
Read more: People we lost: Joe Cocker, by Neil Curry
Read more: People we lost: Football legend Eusebio, by Duarte Mendonca
Read more: People we lost: Christophe de Margerie, by John Defterios
Read more: Loved ones we lost in 2014
