Severe weather tore through the Southeast Sunday night and Monday, killing at least two people and injuring more than 100.
The National Weather Service confirms tornadoes touched down in Alabama and Arkansas. Possible tornadoes were also reported in Mississippi and Tennessee.
Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley declared a State of Emergency for all of the state's 67 counties.
The Alabama Red Cross estimates 211 homes have been destroyed and 218 suffered major damage, making them unlivable.
Disaster relief crews are responding to the immediate needs of storm victims across the Southeast.
There are ways you can help.
Red Cross
The Alabama Red Cross dispatched two emergency response vehicles to provide food to storm victims and opened shelters in Clay, Center Point and St. Clair County.
Disaster teams in Arkansas are helping several displaced families secure emergency shelter after the storms damaged their homes.
Local residents can volunteer at the Alabama Red Cross call bank. Contact Whitney Somerville with the Red Cross for details.
Go online to make a donation to the Red Cross Disaster Relief fund or text REDCROSS to 90999 to donate $10 donation from your mobile device.
Salvation Army
The Salvation Army of Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi is providing relief services in Jefferson and Chilton counties.
Five mobile feeding units sent to the area served over 400 meals on Monday.
The organization is assessing additional needs and says it expects to maintain an extended presence in the damaged areas.
To support the Salvation Army's Emergency Disaster Services fund, go online or call 1-800-SAL-ARMY (725-2769). Designate donations for "January 2012 Tornado Relief."
Alabama Tornado Animals
Alabama Tornado Animals is a group of local Alabama animal rescuers committed to helping lost pets find their way home.
The group began in April 2011 after a deadly tornado outbreak devastated the region.
The group is again helping to reunite lost pets with their families after Monday's severe weather.
E-mail reports of missing or found pets with a description, post to Facebook or tweet @ALtornadopets.
Samaritan's Purse
Samaritan's Purse sent a Disaster Relief Unit, a tractor-trailer with emergency equipment and supplies, to Trussville, Alabama, northeast of Birmingham.
The organization is coordinating volunteers to help with cleanup efforts. Log on for more information on how to participate.
Samaritan's Purse also responded to the April 2011 tornado outbreak in the Southeast and continues to rebuild homes destroyed in that storm.
To support the Samaritan's Purse US Disaster Relief fund, make a donation online.
