Usain Bolt's training partner Kemar Bailey-Cole proved a golden substitute for the six-time Olympic champion by winning the Commonwealth Games 100m title Monday in Glasgow.
Bolt is only running the 4x100m relay at the Games, leaving the way clear for Bailey-Coley to underline Jamaica's strength in depth in sprinting with a superb performance.
He held off the challenge of England's 20-year-old prospect Adam Gemili to win in 10 seconds dead, a world class performance in chilly conditions in the Scottish city.
Bailey-Cole's teammate Nickel Ashmeade took the bronze.
Bolt immediately took to Twitter to congratulate his teammates and they will come together over the weekend for the heats and final of the relay, where they will be hot favorites to add to their success at the Olympics and world championships.
But Jamaican domination in the women's sprints was ended by Nigeria's Blessing Okagbare, who won the 100m title in a Games record 10.85 seconds.
Jamaicans Veronica Campbell-Brown and Kerron Stewart were well beaten in second and third with England's Asha Philip in fourth.
Away from the track and field, there were more top class performances in the swimming pool, with South African pair Cameron van der Burgh and Chad le Clos confirming their status as Olympic champions.
Van der Burgh won the 50m breaststroke title in a time of 26.76 seconds, just outside the world record, edging out 19-year-old Adam Peaty of England for gold.
Le Clos, who beat the great Michael Phelps at the London Games over 200m butterfly, rounded off a superb night of competition at the Tollcross Centre by claiming the 100m title in a Games record of 51.29 seconds.
It completed the butterfly double for Le Clos, with 19-year-old Joseph Schooling taking Singapore's first ever swimming medal at the Games. Adam Barrett of England won the bronze.
In the women's 100m freestyle there was an Australian clean sweep with Cate Campbell and her sister Bronte take gold and silver respectively. Emma McKeon took third.
The trio were in the quartet which broke the world 4x100 freestyle relay record last week.
The squash competition reached its climax with Malaysia's Nicol David retaining here Commonwealth singles title by thrashing England's world champion Laura Massaro in straight games in the women's final on Monday afternoon.
The world number one recovered from a slow start to win 12-10 11-2 11-5 in just 44 minutes.
"It is a great win - probably even more special being the Commonwealth Games gold medal," said David.
David's male counterpart at the top of the rankings, England's Nick Matthew, also retained his Commonwealth Games title after a five-game thriller against compatriot James Willstrop.
Both men had injury fears going into the competition but shrugged them off in a grueling one hour 40 minute encounter, won 11-9 8-11 11-5 6-11 11-5 by Matthew.
