Each fall we return to our beloved TVs, ready for the favorites to ease into an autumnal slump while new series fight for a spot on our DVR.
September sees the list filled up to about 70%, but that number dwindles as the season wears on. By the time winter finales are upon us, less than a quarter of the shows we committed to are left standing. Gone are the programs we were rooting for, cast aside in favor of old favorites like "Sex and The City" reruns on TBS.
Everyone's going to give you the scoop on new fall shows, but we'd like to predict what will survive based on a good old-fashioned hunch. Why? Because we've watched far too much television in our time to sit idly by while our fellow viewers flip aimlessly between the networks. You can thank us later.
"Two Broke Girls" (CBS) -- Written by "Sex And The City" producer Michael Patrick King and comedienne Whitney Cummings, this sitcom stars Kat Dennings and Beth Behrs as a modern-day "Laverne & Shirley."
Max (Dennings) is a mouthy Brooklyn waitress who also works as a nanny. (How we miss New York and scraping to make ends meet.) Her new co-worker, Caroline (Behrs), is an heiress whose father is serving time for his involvement in a Ponzi scheme (too soon?). Caroline is now "broke," and forced to move in with Max. Sounds like a predictable premise, but here's hoping that both the writing and comedic timing is good enough to make up for the tired formula.
"Pan Am" (ABC) -- This little gem of a throwback, starring Christina Ricci, reminds us of what flying once was. Way before passengers were hauled off to airplane jail for not turning their phones off, travel was a privilege -- nay -- a joy. We'll get an all-access look at the glamorous lives of Pan Am's flight attendants, the prom queens of the jet-setting golden age.
"Up All Night" (NBC) -- We cannot WAIT for this comedy, and pray to the gods of network heaven that it's a success. You've seen a few previews here and there of Will Arnett and Christina Applegate turning on each other after having their first baby. Relax, their relationship isn't in jeopardy. They're just new parents! Arnett + Applegate + Maya Rudolph and a baby = The second coming of "30 Rock?" Yes? No?
"Once Upon A Time" (ABC) -- Jennifer Morrison and Ginnifer Goodwin star in this magical series about a town in Maine populated with characters (like Snow White) who have no recollection of their true identities. We are going to be straightforward with you: This program, which tells dual stories set in present day and in fairy tale land, confuses the dust out of us. No matter, we'll be tuning in to see how it all unfolds.
"Terra Nova" (Fox) -- Produced by Steven Spielberg, "Terra Nova" sounds like a TV version of "Jurassic Park," which is fine by us. The drama focuses on the Shannon family, who travel back to prehistoric Earth to save humanity. Dinosaurs both good and bad will cross paths with the Shannons, and we've been promised some dinosaur vs. man action. SOLD.
"Last Man Standing" (ABC) -- Call us old-fashioned, but nothing gives us greater pleasure than to welcome Tim "The Tool Man" Taylor back to Sitcomville.
How we miss watching the father-son camaraderie between Tim and his three boys on "Home Improvement." It's 20 years later and Allen has come home, this time to star as Mike, a "manly married man" with three girls. Allen said at this summer's TCA tour in Beverly Hills that he was pitched a number of television ideas, but refused to stray from the "Home Improvement" concept.
He explained to USA Today that "I just really wanted to investigate what it would be like to be around four women who are intelligent and strong. And I thought it would be kind of fun, literally, to flip-flop 'Home Improvement.' It isn't rocket science what I'm doing." The sitcom also stars Nancy Travis as Allen's wife and Hector Elizondo as his boss.
We're curious to know which shows you'll be tuning into this fall season. Sound off in the comments below.
