L'Wren Scott left her entire estate to her longtime lover, Mick Jagger, according to the late fashion designer's will.
"I give all my jewelry, clothing, household furniture and furnishings, personal automobiles, and other tangible articles of a personal nature...to Michael Philip Jagger," Scott wrote in her will, according to a document released by the Manhattan Surrogate's Court Thursday.
Scott, 49, was found dead by her assistant in her New York apartment March 17. Her death was ruled a suicide, according to the New York City medical examiner, who determined Scott killed herself by hanging.
Scott's personal estate is estimated to be worth $9 million, according to public records. Her main asset was her Manhattan apartment, which is worth a projected $8 million, according to the filings.
Noticeably absent from the will are Scott's two siblings, Randy Bambrough and Jan Shane. Representatives of the siblings could not be immediately reached.
Scott signed the will on May 23, 2013, in Beverly Hills, California, according to the probate documents. Scott's birth name was Lu Ann Bambrough, the filing said.
Jo Wood, the ex-wife of Rolling Stones guitarist Ronnie Wood, told CNN last week that the finances of Scott's fashion business may have played a role in her suicide.
Annual accounts show her London-registered business -- LS Fashion Ltd -- had racked up debts of 5.5 million euros ($7.6 million) by the end of 2012 and was burning through cash at a rapid rate.
The accounts, filed in October 2013, show LS Fashion's cash reserves were decimated over the course of a year, plunging to just under 70,000 euros at the end of 2012 from over 750,000 euros a year earlier
The company's deficit ballooned by 40% to surpass 4.2 million euros ($5.9 million) over the same period.
However, in a statement issued last Friday, a representative for Scott said, "The figures quoted in the media regarding the financial status of LS Fashion Limited are not only highly misleading and inaccurate but also extremely hurtful and disrespectful to the memory of L'Wren Scott."
"The long-term prospects for the business were encouraging. Ms. Scott was very focused on doing what was right for her global business and for the support of her team," the statement said.
Jagger, 70, posted a personal statement about Scott's death on his website last week: "I am still struggling to understand how my lover and best friend could end her life in this tragic way. We spent many wonderful years together and had made a great life for ourselves. She had great presence and her talent was much admired, not least by me."
Scott had been dating the Rolling Stones frontman since at least 2003. The lanky former model designed clothes worn by a number of celebrities, including singer Madonna, actress Allison Williams of HBO's "Girls," and actress Christina Hendricks of AMC's "Mad Men." She also created many of Jagger's looks for the Rolling Stones' 50th anniversary tour, which began in 2012 and is currently in Australia.
The Art of Elysium, an organization that brings the arts to hospitalized children, announced Thursday that it had created an award in Scott's name.
A private service for Scott was held Tuesday at a Hollywood cemetery.
CNN's Alan Duke and CNN Money's Alanna Petroff contributed to this report.
