(CNN Student News) -- February 11, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Egypt • Washington, D.C.
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: I'm Carl Azuz, and Fridays are awesome, especially when they start with a former NFL star.
WARRICK DUNN, FORMER NFL RUNNING BACK: What's up! I'm Warrick Dunn, and this is CNN Student News. Check it out!
First Up: Egypt in Crisis
AZUZ: Scenes of celebration turn to shouts of anger as the crisis in Egypt takes a new turn. This political unrest in the North African nation started late last month. Thousands of protesters marching in the streets, calling for a change in leadership. Their main target: long-time President Hosni Mubarak. These protesters want him out of office now. Yesterday, a huge crowd showed up in the downtown square where a lot of these protests have been going on. The people there were cheering, getting ready for a speech that President Mubarak was scheduled to make, and the rumors were that he was going to step down. During his speech, Mubarak said that he will keep his promise to leave office in the fall after new elections. He said that he's delegating power to the vice president. And he said that he will respond to protesters' demands. What he did not say was that he would immediately leave office. The response from the crowd in the square was immediate, and it was angry. Crowds began chanting "get out" as the president spoke. This is a dynamic situation; things are changing; they're developing all the time. We want you to go to CNN.com for the latest updates.
Is This Legit?
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? The next U.S. presidential election takes place on November 6, 2011. Not true! It's exactly one year after that, on November 6, 2012.
2012 Contenders
AZUZ: The election might be 21 months away, but the lines are forming for people who may want to get into the race. And a convention happening right now in Washington, D.C. may offer some ideas about who will be on the ballot. It's CPAC, the Conservative Political Action Conference. Thousands of conservatives from across the country are spending three days in the nation's capital. They'll hear speeches from some big names in the Republican party, and they'll take part in a straw poll. It's an unofficial vote, and this one includes 15 candidates. Some analysts use these polls to make predictions about who might end up running for president. Ed Henry is CNN's senior White House correspondent; no stranger to the presidential campaign trail. He's here to help explain some of the pros and cons of running for the country's highest political office.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
ED HENRY, CNN SR. WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: When we take a close look at the contenders for 2012, we obviously need to include the sitting president of the United States. But while incumbency has its privileges, it also clearly brings some challenges as well. Call it the power of the presidency. Especially that 416-ton, taxpayer-financed jet that helps you rally voters, rake in millions, and grab headlines from coast to coast.
JACK QUINN, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: When he goes into local markets -- you've been all over with him -- he sucks all the oxygen out of the air.
HENRY: Allowing President Obama to road-test a potential 2012 campaign slogan popping up on new t-shirts that say "we do big things."
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We can do what this moment demands and focus on what's necessary for America to win the future.
HENRY: But incumbency also has a downside.
ED GILLESPIE, FORMER RNC CHAIRMAN: They do bad things, and the policies that they've imposed have not helped us get unemployment down to where it ought to be.
HENRY: The candidate of hope and change in 2008 was largely a blank slate. Now, he has to defend a controversial record, which is why he tried to hit the reset button and focus on jobs in his State of the Union. But the crisis in Egypt is a reminder: sometimes incumbents set the agenda, other times it gets set for them. So far, there's no sign of a serious primary challenge to the president. And he may also be helped by the Republicans' muddled field so far. But Ed Gillespie argues that tough competition could help the GOP, just like the Democratic primary of 2008.
HILLARY CLINTON, SECRETARY OF STATE: Shame on you, Barack Obama!
HENRY: While the pundits warned that the long drama of Clinton v. Obama would hurt the party, just the opposite happened.
GILLESPIE: It made Obama better when he emerged as the nominee. He was a stronger nominee for it.
HENRY: By 2012, the president will have had four years of hand-to-hand combat, this time with Republicans. The big question now is whether those battles have, once again, made him a stronger nominee.
(END VIDEO)
Shoutout
JOHN LISK, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mr. Finn's 6th grade social studies students in Pewaukee, Wisconsin! Which U.S. president is known as the "Great Emancipator"? You know what to do! Is it: A) Washington, B) Jefferson, C) Lincoln or D) Roosevelt? You've got three seconds -- GO! President Abraham Lincoln, or Honest Abe, is also known as the Great Emancipator. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Lincoln's Birthday
AZUZ: Lincoln got that nickname because he's credited with freeing, or emancipating, the country's slaves through his Emancipation Proclamation in 1863. President Lincoln also pushed for the passage of the 13th Amendment, which outlawed slavery in the United States. That was one of his big campaign issues when he ran for re-election in 1864. And Honest Abe has a birthday coming up. This Saturday, February 12th, marks the 202nd anniversary of the birth of the 16th president. The fact that Lincoln, the Great Emancipator, was born in February is part of the reason why February was picked as Black History Month.
Black History Month Quiz
AZUZ: And our commemoration of Black History Month continues today. For this quick quiz, we're focusing on African-American inventors. First question for you: Ironing out wrinkles is a lot easier thanks to the ironing board. Who created it? Was it George Washington Carver, Sarah Boone or Garrett Morgan? Anwer is: On April 26, 1892, Sarah Boone received a patent for an ironing board made of a narrow wooden board, collapsible legs and a padded cover.
Next up, something you're probably familiar with: the pencil sharpener. Who came up with this invention? Your choices here: Charles Brooks, Lonnie Johnson or John Love? Here we go: It was John Love, patented his design for the pencil sharpener in 1897.
Last question, and this one's gonna be tough. Any of you who use a hair brush with synthetic bristles, who do you have to thank for it? Was it Madam C.J. Walker, Lyda Newman or Marie Brown? Our last answer: Lyda Newman didn't invent the hair brush, but she was the first person to make one with synthetic bristles.
You can research all of these inventors and their inventions as part of your celebration of Black History Month. And stay tuned for more coverage on CNN Student News, including our interview with Warrick Dunn, whom you saw at the beginning of today's show.
Guiding the Way
AZUZ: You hear a lot about how you'll use what you learn in school later on in life. But there's a group of 7th graders in Texas that don't want to wait that long. They're using knowledge from their robotics class right now. Shannon Murray of affiliate KOSA shows us how a class lesson turned into a lifeline for one of their fellow students.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
DANTE HALL, 7TH GRADER: In 2007, I lost my eyesight from a bad asthma attack. The worst one I've ever had.
SHANNON MURRAY, KOSA REPORTER: An asthma attack so bad that Dante Hall not only lost his sight, but all feeling in his fingertips, making it difficult to learn braille.
CLAIRE LANCASTER, CLASSMATE: He was just telling us how it's really hard for him to get around with a cane because people jump over it and run in front of it.
JOSEPH VELASCO, CLASSMATE: He only has a cane and he's walking through the halls, and people mess with him and play around and he can't see anything.
MURRAY: And they found the perfect way to help.
CURT COWDREY, TEACHER: After I was told about his impairment and some of the abilities he doesn't have, our thinking was get him in here, get him working with robotics, get his fingers to working again.
DANTE: Robotics is a great class, the best class I've ever been in. I've got a lot of people helping me.
SAMUEL HIGGINS, CLASSMATE: We're trying to get it to go to each one of his classes, and I think he would love that. I know he will.
MURRAY: Not only is Dante finding his way to class, he's also found a group of friends.
VELASCO: We're kind of like a little bit of a family.
DANTE: I haven't been happy in a long time.
(END VIDEO)
Make us your home page!
AZUZ: It's an excellent story. You can watch that -- or any of our shows -- again at CNNStudentNews.com. Just one reason why you should make us your home page. Links that take you more in depth into stories from the program. And our Spotlight section, where you can find all of our Black History Month materials. CNNStudentNews.com: a one-stop spot for everything you need.
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go, we want you to check out a business model that's designed for all seasons. When the temperature gets colder, the drinks get warmer, and you end up with the winter version of a lemonade stand. The igloo supposedly maintains a steady 55 degrees. Would be a little worried that the hot chocolate might melt the walls, but I'm sure these enterprising entrepreneurs have a solid plan in place. And it seems like they're making at least one sale.
Goodbye
AZUZ: Though you might chocolate of that up to being the only game in town. Today's sign-off line from Facebook.com/CNNStudentNews comes from Spencer: I'm Carl Azuz, and up next is your teacher speaking. Have a great weekend!
