Veteran Rep. John Boehner of Ohio became the 61st speaker of the House of Representatives Wednesday as Republicans officially took charge of the chamber for the first time in four years and dramatically changed Washington's political landscape.
Democrats maintained control of the Senate for the new 112th Congress, but with a reduced majority.
The change likely presages a stark ideological conflict with President Barack Obama, who is preparing to defend his legislative accomplishments of the past two years and position himself for a re-election campaign in 2012.
Ninety-four new House members were sworn in Wednesday, along with 13 new senators.  The new House has the largest freshman class with no previous experience in elective office since 1948.
Republicans now hold a 242-193 majority in the House.  Democrats hold at 53-47 majority in the Senate.
Boehner, first elected to the House in 1990, inherited the speaker's gavel from Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-California.  Boehner's rise to the top position caps a remarkable political comeback.  He was voted out of the House leadership in 1998 after Republicans unexpectedly lost seats to Democrats that year.
Ten of Boehner's 11 siblings were present when he was formally sworn in by Michigan Rep. John Dingell, the longest-serving member of the House.
"Hard work and tough decisions will be required of the 112th Congress. No longer can we fall short," Boehner said after taking the gavel.  "No longer can we kick the can down the road.  The people voted to end business as usual, and today we begin carrying out their instructions."
He promised minority Democrats "an honest debate" and "a fair and open process."
"There's a great deal of scar tissue that's been built up on both sides of the aisle," he said.  But "we can disagree without being disagreeable."
Pelosi, before handing over the gavel, reiterated that House Democrats are prepared to work with the Republicans on proposals to help the middle class, create jobs, and cut the deficit.
"We extend the hand of friendship," she said.  "But where we cannot find common ground, we must stand our ground."
She also appeared to predict a quick Democratic resurgence, promising that "two years from now when we come together, things will be different."
The first order of business for the new House majority was passage of a new set of rules to govern the chamber.  In a nod to GOP freshmen with ties to the conservative Tea Party, all new legislation will be required to include a "Constitutional Authority Statement," specifying which section of the Constitution allows for passage of the bill.
The Constitution will be read aloud on the House floor on Thursday.
