Italy international midfielder Alberto Aquilani has left English Premier League side Liverpool to join AC Milan on loan for the rest of the season.
Aquilani, 27, joined Liverpool from Roma in 2009, but the playmaker has struggled with form and fitness during his two years on Merseyside, spending last term on loan at Juventus.
"Alberto Aquilani has completed his loan transfer from Liverpool to AC Milan," read a statement on five-time European champions Liverpool's web site.
"The deal, which includes the option of a permanent move, will end on June 30, 2012."
Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish revealed the reasons behind the transfer and said he could not find room for Aquilani in his team.
"It's a great move for Alberto," said the Scot. "He's got his wife and kid over there. It was difficult for him here.
"When he came back his pre-season training was excellent. We gave him a few games, he did well in those games. But the problem for us was trying to get him in the team.
"Obviously everybody wants to play and Alberto is moving over to a fantastic football club. He goes there with the best wishes of everyone and we hope it works out for him, because he was never a problem in any way, shape or form."
Aquilani has won 17 caps for Italy and was part of the Azzurri squad for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa.
Elsewhere, English midfielder Joey Barton has left Newcastle to join newly-promoted Queens Park Rangers on a four-year deal.
Barton, 28, fell out with the Newcastle hierarchy after criticizing the way the club was run on the social-networking site Twitter.
The former Manchester City player signed for Newcastle in 2007 and was part of their squad which was relegated from the Premier League in 2009, and then gained promotion back to England's top division in 2010.
QPR were recently taken over by AirAsia chief Tony Fernandes and Barton said the ambition of the London outfit is what convinced him to make the move.
"The ambition of the club really impressed me," Barton told their official web site.
"There's a great set of lads here already and that's why they had such a great season in the Championship.
"The manager is talking about adding two or three more bodies and that, combined with the potential of the club and the new owners' ambitions, bodes really well for the future."
Another player on the move on Friday was Dedryck Boyata, with the central defender joining Bolton Wanderers from Manchester City on a season-long loan deal.
The 20-year-old Belgium international will spend the rest of the campaign with Owen Coyle's side.
Meanwhile, in Italy, Macedonian international striker Goran Pandev has left Inter Milan to join Champions League rivals Napoli on loan.
Pandev joined Inter in January 2010 after five seasons at Lazio but scored only two goals in 27 matches last season.
