Two island paradises may be spared heavy damage this weekend, as hurricanes roar through the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
The worst was over early Saturday for the British territory of Bermuda in the North Atlantic Ocean, after Hurricane Gonzalo passed over. And in the South Pacific, forecasters say the center of Hurricane Ana will slink by about 150 miles southwest of Hawaii.
Over 80% of households in Bermuda were without power, according to a local newspaper, the Royal Gazette, which has reported no deaths, injuries or major damage due to the storm.
A tropical storm a week earlier had knocked out power to nearly as many customers, the Gazette reported.
Gonzalo weakened from a powerful Category 3 storm Friday evening to a Category 2 storm, according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami.
It battered the island with wind gusts that topped 115 mph at one point, the agency said, as the storm moved in a northeasterly direction at 16 mph.
Ahead of the storm, Bermuda closed schools, shut down bus and ferry service, and opened up shelters.
Forecasters predicted Gonzalo will weaken to as it moves past Bermuda and pushes into the North Atlantic.
2014 Atlantic Hurricane Season facts
Hawaii prepares
Hurricane Ana strengthened into a Category 1 storm Friday afternoon with maximum sustained winds of 75 miles per hour, according to the Central Pacific Hurricane Center in Honolulu.
But the hurricane is far enough away that forecasters predict its effects will amount to tropical storm conditions in parts of the islands over the weekend.
But Gov. Neil Abercrombie isn't taking any chances.
Abercrombie declared a state of emergency earlier this week in advance of Ana's arrival. The emergency proclamation "allows us to respond quickly to any potential impacts," he said.
Ana could cause dangerous surf conditions, coastal flooding and mudslides as it moves through the region. Some areas could see up to the 8 inches of rain with as much as 12 inches in isolated areas.
Hurricanes are a rare occurrence in Hawaii. Only three storms have made a direct landfall on the islands in the past 55 years, according to the Central Pacific Hurricane Center.
But it's already been an unusual year for Hawaiians, weatherwise. The island chain has already been hit by two damaging tropical storms so far this season.
CNN's Ed Payne contributed to this story
