The breakout star of this summer's Olympic games so far has been ... Twitter.
The social network has become the go-to place for real-time news, snarky commentary and controversy from athletes, journalists, sports fans and celebrities alike.
Here are 12 prolific and entertaining Twitter accounts to follow so you don't have to miss a score -- or spat.
Sanya Richards (@SanyaRichiRoss): The outrage over International Olympic Committee's Rule 40, which bars athletes from promoting their sponsors during the Games, has caused some competitors to protest on social media. U.S. track-and-field athlete Sanya Richards is leading the way.
Sample tweet: Now headed to one of my fave sponsors BP for my appearance ;-) think I can tweet about them #Rule40 so confusing :-/
Lolo Jones (@lolojones) -- American hurdler Lolo Jones is a riot without a filter. That makes for the best kind of Twitter account.
Sample tweet: Italy's in next building. Could hear shouts of joy from open windows when they won... Either that or their espresso machine finally got fixed
The Empty Seat (@olympicseat): The Olympics isn't all joy, drama and excitement. One important group is suffering from a touch of sadness and ennui: the venues' empty seats. This Twitter feed captures the pain and longing of an unfulfilled destiny.
Sample tweet: My mother wanted me to embark on a more stable career path, become an ikea chair for example. But I felt I was destined for greater things.
Hope Solo (@hopesolo): This outspoken U.S. soccer goalie has made headlines for her Twitter smackdowns of former player-turned NBC commentator Brandi Chastain.
Sample tweet: Lay off commentating about defending and gking until you get more educated @brandichastain the game has changed from a decade ago.
Steve Wilson (@stevewilsonap) -- Follow veteran Olympics journalist Wilson to keep up on behind-the-scenes stories about the politics of the Olympics Committee.
Sample tweet: LOCOG confirmed that Japanese team in opening ceremony left stadium after doing lap in athletes march. Was their request. #london2012
Samuel L. Jackson (@SamuelLJackson): Yes, that Samuel L. Jackson. The actor is tweeting up a storm for the Olympics, and it's pretty much exactly as great as you'd imagine it to be.
Sample tweet: Hey y'all, more Water Polo dopeness! US vs Hungary, HOTTNESS in a shoot out!!
NBC Delayed (@nbcdelayed): Twitter has been filled with equal amounts excitement about the Olympics and outrage at NBC's delayed, chatty broadcasts. This feed is a running dig at the network.
Sample tweet: BREAKING: Roman Emperor Theodosius bans Olympic Games, NBC delay to catch up shortly. #394AD
Mark Cavendish (@MarkCavendish): He's already competed in his scheduled event, Saturday's Olympic road race. Now colorful professional cyclist Cavendish is helping cover track cycling for the BBC.
Sample tweet: Gutted. After 250km, less than a minute to 20guys. My guys were INCREDIBLE & there was nothing more we could do. Victims of our own success.
Matthew Mitcham (@matthew_mitcham): Olympic diver Mitcham already won gold in 2008. This year he's multitasking, managing to live-tweet while competing in diving events and answering questions followers have about the sport.
Sample tweet: FINAL ROUND: @loudywiggins @rachel_bugg back 2.5 with 1.5 twist pike: execution 6.5-8.5, synchro 8.5, dive 77.76, total 323.55. WELL DONE!!!
Holley Mangold (@holleymangold): This media-savvy (and surprisingly funny) U.S. team weightlifter has been posting tons of great observations and photos about her time in London.
Sample tweet: Just throwing it out there that it was a privilege to be among the long list of people @ConanOBrien  has made fun of :) #lovehisshow
US Olympic Team (@USOlympic) -- A hashtag-happy, enthusiastic cheerleading feed of news, scores, RTs, photos and videos about the U.S. team.
Sample tweet: Move over #MagnificentSeven, hello #FabFive! The women's @USAGym team has just won its second-ever Olympic team gold; first since 1996!
space™ hijackers™ (@spacehijackers): Calling themselves the "Official Protesters of the London 2012 Olympic Games," the Space Hijackers are tweeting to and about groups protesting the Olympics.
Sample tweet: LOCOG wld like to remind Londoners that complaint slips for #emptyseats will be available at the end of each javelin on the athletics field.
Search for more: If you're looking for a specific sport, team, event or athlete, start typing in the search bar of the Olympic Hub tool: hub.olympic.org
