(CNN Student News) -- February 24, 2014
The last week of February begins with a big question hovering over Ukraine: Who's in charge of the country? Today on CNN Student News, we'll update you on what happened there over the weekend, and we'll explore other subjects ranging from the Olympics medal count to the Medal of Honor.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What elements would you include in a news report aimed at familiarizing an international audience with a country's political system?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. parliament
2. Second Amendment
3. Medal of Honor
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What action has Ukraine's parliament taken regarding the country's presidency? Who is Viktor Yanukovych, and how did he respond to this action?
2. What Second Amendment case will be heard by the U.S. Supreme Court this week? What are the different sides in this case? What case involving Congress and the president will be heard by the justices?
3. What is the current federal minimum wage in the U.S.? What does President Obama want it to be? According to the video, what are some arguments in favor of raising the minimum wage? What are some arguments against raising it?
4. Who is Sgt. 1st Class Melvin Morris? What honor will he soon receive? According to the video, why are he and others being honored decades after they demonstrated heroism?
Discussion Questions:
1. How would you describe Sochi's Olympic Games? What has the rest of the world learned about Sochi? Would you consider the games a success? Explain.
2. If you were arguing before the Supreme Court on either side of a Second Amendment case, what points would you strive to make? What factors do you think that the justices will consider as they make their decisions on each of the cases described in the video?
3. If a large retail company raises the minimum wage it pays its workers, what impact do you think it might have on the company, the workers, and the customers? How might a minimum wage hike impact a small business, its workers, and its customers? Do you think the overall impact on the economy would be positive or negative? Explain.
4. What might students learn from the stories of those who exhibit bravery in war? What lessons do you think could be learned from the experiences of those who fought discrimination at home after they fought enemies in war?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
