One of two 12-year-old Wisconsin girls accused of stabbing a third girl repeatedly after reading online horror stories is not competent to stand trial, a doctor reported to the court handling the case.
But the court-ordered report on Morgan Geyser's competency -- mentioned in a hearing in Waukesha on Wednesday -- isn't the final word on the matter, as Judge Michael Bohren granted the prosecution a chance to challenge the finding in an August 1 hearing.
Also Wednesday, Bohren granted the prosecution's request for doctors to examine Geyser again, this time to determine whether she has a "mental disease or defect" that could have an impact on the case.
Prosecutor Susan Opper requested the new examination, noting that the competency report doesn't address whether Geyser is mentally ill. Further details about the report aren't publicly available, as the court has sealed it.
Geyser and Annisa Weier are charged as adults with attempted first-degree intentional homicide, accused of stabbing a 12-year-old schoolmate in a Waukesha park 19 times and leaving her to crawl to her own rescue in late May.
After being hospitalized for days, the victim is recuperating at home, her family has said.
Both defendants were silent, handcuffed and wearing blue jail clothes, as they attended separate procedural hearings Wednesday morning.
Neither defendant has entered a plea, as lawyers for both sides have tried to deal with Geyser's competency and procedural matters ahead of an official preliminary hearing. Both are being held with bail set at $500,000.
Weier's attorneys haven't asked the court to determine whether she is competent, but her lawyer Joseph Smith Jr. told Bohren on Wednesday that he reserved the right to do so. Weier's defense team has said it will try to move her case to juvenile court, and Smith said Weier's competency could come up as part of that attempt.
Like Geyser, Weier is next due in court August 1, when Weier's attorneys are expected to tell Bohren how much more time they need to prepare for a plea hearing.
Bohren ordered that the new report on Geyser's mental health be completed before her August 1 hearing.
Authorities said one of the girls held the victim down while another stabbed her 19 times on May 31, allegedly so that the girls could impress a fictitious, ghoulish Internet character called Slenderman.
The victim was taken to a hospital after a passing bicyclist found her, police said.
The suspects were arrested hours after the victim was discovered, according to a criminal complaint.
One of the girls encountered the name on a website known as Creepypasta Wiki, authorities said. One of the suspects allegedly told police that Slenderman is the site's supposed leader, and to climb into his realm, a user must kill someone.
Slenderman stabbing case: When can kids understand reality vs. fantasy?
Parents, take heed: 'Slenderman' and more lurk online
Fund for the victim
CNN's Shawn Nottingham contributed to this report.
