While the demographic composition of the 113th Congress is in some sense historic, many  issues it will face - government spending, entitlement reform, and immigration - are nothing new.
Will the new Congress continue the reputation of its predecessor as a 'do-nothing Congress' or will be productive?
Here's a look - by the numbers - at the new wave of legislators on Capitol Hill:
13 - New senators.
New Congress more diverse than ever
84 - New House members.
98 - Women in the new Congress: 78 in the House, 20 in the Senate.
Politics in 2013: 5 things to watch for
38 - Years in office of the longest currently serving senator, Patrick Leahy, D-Vermont.
53+ - Years in office of the longest currently serving congressman, John Dingell, D-Michigan.
5 - Net gain in number of seats women hold in 113th Congress over 112th.
3 - States with two women senators: California, New Hampshire, and Washington.
95 - Percent of the U.S. Senate that is white.
By the Numbers: Politics in 2013
19 - Percent of the U.S. House of Representatives that belong to minority groups.
89 - Age of the oldest-ever member of the House, Ralph Hall, R-Texas. He broke the previous record on Christmas Day.
8.5 - Percent of the U.S. House under 40.
27 - Percent of the Senate that is Catholic.
4 - The number of new U.S. House seats in Texas created by reapportionment; out 12 total. Texas gained more new seats than any other state.
Are the days of Congress 'going big' over?
5 - Members of the 113th Congress who had previous careers in professional sports.
7 - Members who are openly gay or bisexual.
12 - New members who have served in the U.S. military.
2 - Physicists in Congress: Rep. Bill Foster, a Democratic congressman-elect from Illinois, and Rep. Rush Holt, Jr., a New Jersey Democrat.
6 - Number of reindeer owned by Kerry Bentivolio, a congressman-elect from Michigan. He has worked as a Santa impersonator since the 1980s before running for Congress.
New Congress takes office Thursday, will tackle leftovers from old Congress
On religion, Capitol freshmen are more diverse than their incumbent colleagues
