Thursday's Los Angeles Dodgers game was a "safe" event, police said, after security was beefed up in the wake of a March 31 attack in which a San Francisco Giants fan was seriously injured.
"We had a great safe game," said Los Angeles Police Department Deputy Chief Jose Perez, after the Dodgers loss. "This is the benchmark we will have at future Dodger games."
As police talked about their efforts to add security to baseball games, Bryan Stow was still hospitalized from being beaten after a recent Dodgers-Giants game.
Stow, 42, was put in a medically induced coma following the attack. About 100 witnesses saw Stow attacked as he left a stadium parking lot. The two suspected assailants fled after the beating in a light-colored, four-door car driven by a woman with a young boy inside, authorities have said.
Family members said doctors have lowered Stow's sedation and are hoping he wakes up soon.
"We have received hundreds of tips, but we are far from a solution," Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck told reporters Thursday. He appealed to those with information to come forward, saying they can do so anonymously. He showed reporters new composite sketches of the suspects. Officials are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to arrests and convictions.
There was increased police presence inside and outside the stadium Thursday. Officers were tasked with ensuring the no-tailgating rule was enforced and no fans were drinking in surrounding areas before entering the stadium, police said. In addition, increased lighting has been added to the parking lots.
There were at least 38 people cited for various violations including having an open container of alcohol and drinking in public, Perez said.
Perez said he had not heard of any reports of violent offenses Thursday.
Dodgers owner Frank McCourt said he hopes officials can go even further and bring about changes in fans' behavior.
"We sincerely hope that the solutions we put in place here at Dodger Stadium will be used at sports and entertainment venues throughout America," McCourt said.
Stow is hospitalized at the Los Angeles County-University of Southern California Medical Center.
As of Wednesday, "There have been no more seizures for a couple days," Stow's sister Erin wrote on a website launched to provide updates on his condition, www.support4bryanstow.com. Doctors have been lowering his sedation, she wrote.
"Once it's out of his system, he can be examined and hopefully (praying) he responds to commands. Or better yet, wakes up."
Stow's cousin, John Stow, told CNN affiliate KRON on Thursday, it's not known when Stow will wake up. "Head injuries are unique," he said. "Every case is different, so we're just going to be patient ... Bryan's going to do it when he's ready."
The family has said they are grateful for the outpouring of support. Since the unprovoked attack, money has poured in from numerous donors and fundraising events to help pay for Stow's medical costs and support his two young children.
Giants pitcher Tim Lincecum announced on his Facebook page that he plans to contribute $25,000 to the Bryan Stow Fund.
"This was a senseless act of violence, and I wanted to help out Mr. Stow and his family," Lincecum stated. "I encourage Giants fans to support Mr. Stow in a positive way and hope there are not any more unfortunate acts between fans in this great rivalry."
At a dual fundraiser Monday at Dodger Stadium and AT&T Park in San Francisco, where the two teams play, more than $120,000 was raised, said American Medical Response spokesman Jason Sorrick. In all, more than $200,000 has been raised for Stow, who works for AMR.
"We couldn't be more proud of Bryan and the way the community has rallied around him," John Stow said. Another event was to be held in the San Francisco area Thursday.
CNN's Stan Wilson contributed to this report.
