There are just a few days until spring, but winter isn't done with some of us yet.
A significant storm will threaten the Northeast on Monday into Tuesday, and areas of Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota could see blizzard conditions through the night.
Forecasters said Boston will get 3 to 6 inches of snow and sleet before rain begins to fall Tuesday night. All public schools in the city will be closed Tuesday, according to an announcement Monday evening on the official Twitter account of Boston's public school system.
CNN affiliate WCVB warned its viewers that by Tuesday morning, the commute to work will be slow.
"We'll have at least a couple of inches of snow on the ground with heavy snow still falling. Mix/freezing rain will develop from south to north during the morning. This will keep overall snow totals down, but traveling will still be difficult," meteorologist J.C. Monahan said.
The New England mountains will get between 10 and 14 inches with snow falling at up to 2 inches per hour Monday night, forecasters said.
Other areas of New England could get up to 8 inches.
Fewer than 300 flights were canceled Monday, but delays are expected at airports from Ohio to New York.
It was unusually cold and blustery in New York, where a little snow was expected to fall before changing to rain overnight.
Track the winter storm
The low visibility was causing delays of almost an hour at Newark International Airport and LaGuardia Airport in the New York area.
There will be storms in the South and while the rain could help firefighters near the tourist destination of Pigeon Forge, Tennessee, as they try to contain a wildfire that has burned more than 35 buildings, they will also battle wind gusts of up to 20 mph.
A tornado touched down Monday afternoon in Rutherford County near Nashville, Tennessee, county officials said.
The tornado was on the ground for about 4 1/2 miles, said Joe Gourley of the Rutherford County Emergency Management Agency.
Fewer than a dozen homes suffered minor to moderate damage, trees were toppled and roads were blocked, Gourley said.
Just to the west, students at Fairview Middle School were evacuated after lightning struck the school and started a fire on the roof, CNN affiliate WTVF reported.
In North Dakota, a no-travel advisory was issued by the state department of transportation for the eastern half of the state.
The warning said there were areas where visibility was almost zero because of blowing snow, and there was significant ice on the highways and streets.
One highway was blocked because of snow drifts covering the road, CNN affiliate KXJB reported. Minnesota officials had also closed three highways in the west central part of that state, KXJB reported.
CNN's Justin Jones and Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this report.
