New Formula One season, same old story. Triple world champion Sebastian Vettel began his quest for a fourth consecutive drivers' title by putting his Red Bull top of the timesheets in practice ahead of the season-opening Australian Grand Prix.
The German's lap of one minute and 25.908 seconds edged out teammate Mark Webber, who was second fastest.
"Overall it was a good day for us," the 25-year-old Vettel told the sport's official website. "After all the mileage of testing, it was fun to be out there -- this circuit doesn't get easier, it's a good challenge."
"Today was a good day and the balance was good, but we need to be ready for what's coming up."
The nearest challenger to the Red Bull drivers was Mercedes' Nico Rosberg, who continued to show the pace which saw him go faster than any other driver during preseason testing.
For Rosberg's teammate, Lewis Hamilton, this weekend will be his first grand prix since ending a 15-year association with McLaren.
It wasn't an ideal start to a new chapter in his career for the 2008 world champion, with Hamilton ending the day seventh fastest after sliding off the track during what looked to be a promising lap.
"Overall it was a good day, if perhaps not the smoothest," reflected Hamilton. "I'm happy with where we are and to see Nico in third place on the timesheets shows that we're pretty competitive.
"That's a reflection of a great job that everyone has done at the factory and here at the track. I'm looking forward to the rest of the weekend."
Friday's practice at Albert Park took place in favorable conditions, although wet weather is predicted for qualifying on Saturday.
Ferrari's Fernando Alonso, who was sixth fastest, expects conditions to change completely, while he also doubts the Italian team will be able to compete at the front of the grid in Melbourne.
"Our efforts were helped by particularly favourable weather with sunshine and summery temperatures," explained the double world champion.
"However, the weather is expected to change completely from tomorrow, with wind, rain and a significant drop in temperature, which could influence Sunday's race.
"I'm not expecting any major surprises here, we already knew we were not the quickest and that was confirmed today. The car responds well, but we know there is still much to do if we want to fight with the very best."
