Pop star Britney Spears is an "adult child in the throes of a mental health crisis" whose "life is presently at risk," her parents said Wednesday night after the singer was released from a hospital.
Jamie and Lynne Spears said in a statement that they were dismayed to learn that their daughter had been discharged from the University of California-Los Angeles Medical Center Wednesday over the recommendation of her psychiatrist.
They said the hospital could "best care for her and keep her safe."
"We are deeply concerned about her safety and vulnerability and we believe her life is presently at risk," the statement added.
"There are conservatorship orders in place created to protect our daughter that are being blatantly disregarded. We ask only that the court's orders be enforced so that a tragedy may be averted."
Spears left the Los Angeles hospital Wednesday afternoon, nearly a week after being admitted in the latest stage of an extraordinary public meltdown.  Get a paparazzi-eye view of Spears »
Followed by paparazzi, a convoy of police escorted Spears to University of California-Los Angeles Medical Center on January 30, her second hospitalization in a month.
It was the latest step in the personal and career skid for the 26-year-old singer, now embroiled in a battle with ex-husband Kevin Federline over the custody of their two sons.
Spears left the facility Wednesday in her black Mercedes-Benz and drove to a hotel with television helicopters tracking every turn. A crowd of photographers swarmed around her when she arrived.
She also had been taken to another hospital January 3 for drug and alcohol tests and a psychiatric evaluation after a custody dispute at her home. The following day, a California court refused to grant Spears visitation rights with her children -- Sean Preston, 2, and Jayden James, 1 -- until mid-February at the earliest.
In the last year, the onetime Mouseketeer has shaved her head as photographers looked on; been cited for "habitual, frequent, and continuous use of controlled substances and alcohol" by the judge in her custody case; and seen her "comeback" performance on the MTV Video Music Awards panned by critics who derided her singing, dancing, costume choice and weight.
Spears' parents obtained a restraining order against her manager earlier this week, accusing Omar "Sam" Lufti -- whom Spears met in October -- of drugging her and controlling her life, her finances and her exposure to photographers. The order barred Lufti from Spears' homes and those of her family, as well as her children.
Federline, Spears' former backup dancer, holds primary custody of the children. Spears had been in trouble with the court earlier concerning her compliance with court orders in the custody case. E-mail to a friend
