Double gold was the theme on day two of the 2014 Winter Paralympics in Sochi Sunday with Austria's Markus Salcher and Akira Kano of Japan achieving the feat at the Rosa Khutor Alpine Center.
Salcher claimed the men's super-G standing class to follow his triumph in the downhill on the first day.
Kano wrapped up the same double in the sitting class, racing down the course in one minute 19.51 seconds, over two seconds clear of teammate Taiki Morri. Canada's Caleb Brousseau finished third.
The 22-year-old Salcher, who was born with the right side of his body paralyzed, edged out fellow Austrian Matthias Lanzinger and Russian Alexey Bugaev.
He said conditions had boosted his chances. "It was a bit bumpy but I know it from yesterday and before. The snow is soft but they salted it and I think with the salt it's good.
"For me it's better that way than icy. I don't like icy slopes," he told the official Games website.
"The downhill race gold medal is a dream and now a second (gold medal) I can't believe it," he added.
Salcher will bid for his third gold medal in the giant slalom later this week.
Spain's visually impaired skier Jon Santacana Maiztegui had been bidding to win his second gold after taking the downhill Saturday, but could only manage fourth in the super-G.
Slovakian Jakub Krako, who was guided by Martin Motyka, improved on his silver four years ago in Vancouver to take the gold. He had been fourth in the downhill.
"It is a big success today. It was hard work. It is difficult to say what I'm feeling right now but I am but I am proud," he said.
USA's Mark Bathum won silver with Canada's edging Maiztegui for the bronze
The other golds awarded Sunday came in nordic skiing events, with Ukraine picking up its first gold of the Paralympics.
Lyudmyla Pavlenko led from start to the finish for victory in the women's 12km sitting cross-country.
Oksana Masters of the United took silver to complete a remarkable double of her own following a bronze in rowing in the summer Paralymics in London 2012.
"I am ecstatic," Masters said.
"The course for me was tricky because I am a fairly new skier still and the course had some tight turns. So I just tried to stay calm and relax on the turns and then just hammer home."
Russia's Svetlana Konovalova claimed her second medal of the championships, adding a bronze to the silver she took on day one in the 6km sitting biathlon.
The hosts, who top the medals table after the second day of competition, enjoyed a clean sweep in the men's 15km sitting race.
Roman Petushkov also collected his second gold medal of the Games with his teammates Irek Zaripov and Aleksandr Davidovich in second and third place.
"I want to thank my whole team. We did this together," said a delighted Petushkov.
