Yes, it's great to travel light.
Sure, too much tech can make life trickier, not easier.
No, that's not going to stop us listing some of the coolest gadgets, gizmos and accessories that could just make you the happiest traveler this side of the Apple store. (If only till you lose them/have them stolen.)
Narrative clip-on camera
This is a tiny five-megapixel camera that clips onto your clothes and does the work for you, automatically taking two photos every minute when turned on. The accompanying app lets you save, organize and search the images. Narrative, $279.
Modern-twist mark-mat
A washable mark-mat is a great time-waster for kids to draw on. The doodle-friendly placemats feature scenes from several top cities, including Paris and New York, and come alone or with four dry-erase markers so kids can wipe off their work and start over again. Modern-twist, $18-25.
Dom Reilly Watch Roll
This layer of high-tech foam (the same stuff used in F1 cars) protects your timepieces from 97% of the shock from an impact. Dom Reilly, $500.
Smythson Chameleon Collection Travel Journal
Jotting down your travel-related musings is made less choresome by this luxurious notebook, which has a goatskin cover and ultra-thin pages. Smythson, $280.
Fitkit fitness solution
This portable fitness solution combines resistance bands, handled resistance tubes, a jump rope, pedometer and more in a handy package weighing less than two pounds. Fitkit, $34.99.
SleepPhones
A "headphone in a headband" that fits snugly around your ears and provides hours of audio to help reduce ambient noises? Finally!
The wireless version ($99.95) syncs with your smart phone or other Bluetooth-enabled device. SleepPhones, $39.95.
Scottevest Blackout Pocket
You can foil, or at least delay, digital thieves with this high-tech clothing pocket. The totable 5x6.5-inch pouch is lined with an RFID-blocking material, securing the info on credit cards and cellphones from scanners, skimmers and the like. SCOTTEVEST, $20-40.
Panasonic HX-A500 wearable camcorder
This is the world's first 25-frame-a-second, 4K (very high resolution) wearable camcorder, worn on any part of the body and operated with a separate control panel. It can record underwater and if your shots are wonky, it'll automatically level them out. Panasonic, $399.99.
BioLite CampStove
The BioLite CampStove can toast your marshmallows and charge your smart phone. By burning a few sticks inside, enough electricity is generated to charge multiple electronic devices, while you heat water, grill some burgers or sear some s'mores. Biolitestove, $129.95.
Clever Travel Companion secure clothing
Cash, passports and other treasures can be secured in the hidden pockets of a stylish line of T-shirts, tank tops and, yes, even undies and long johns. Clever Travel Companion, starting at $21.90.
SwaggerTag
This is a colorful ID tag to personalize your baggage using a family photo, the logo of your favorite sports team or any other image. Your personal information is stored safely inside. SwaggerTag, $3.99.
SteriPEN Ultra
This clever piece of kit eliminates 99.9% of bacteria from water in just 48 seconds. The UV lamp can be used to treat 8,000 one-liter containers. SteriPEN, $99.95.
Zeiss Victory HT 8x42 binoculars
These binoculars claim to offer the best light transmission on the market, which means you'll still get great vision on the cloudiest of days. They're also extremely tough, with housing made from high tensile magnesium and a coating that repels water. Cabelas, $2,249.99.
Trakdot luggage tracker
Trakdot is a compact unit outfitted with a GSM chip that you tuck in your bag, allowing you to track its location on your computer or smart phone. The price tag includes activation and your first year's service. Trakdot, $89.99.
Bentley Mulsanne B-001 WG sunglasses
First step on the road to owning a Bentley car -- the Bentley sunglasses. Made from white gold and featuring the same B found on your Bentley Mulsanne gear lever (if you own one), even the case is impressive -- a reassuringly solid box designed to fit perfectly into the center console of your Bentley. Again, if you own one. Bentley Eyewear, $15,950.
"Dog Lover's Guide To Travel"
Kelly Carter's new book dishes advice on everything from prepping your pooch for a trek to the beach (yes, they should wear sunscreen) to finding the most Fido-friendly hotels, restaurants, parks and more in 75 cities across North America. "The Dog Lover's Guide to Travel," $22.95.
Ultimate Bag on Wheels pet carrier
Sherpa's Ultimate Bag on Wheels pet carrier is a medium-sized bag with wheels for animals weighing up to 16 pounds. It's part of the company's Guaranteed on Board program, ensuring acceptance on Delta, Southwest and most other major airlines. Ultimate on Wheels, $147.
Simple.be metal-free belts
Simple.be makes metal-free belts that won't set off airport security detectors. They're made of sturdy polypropylene or polyester webbing and feature an acetal buckle.
The belts are available in a multitude of colors and feature either a diamond or zigzag pattern. simple.be, $19-29.
Mytask Urban iPhone case and toolkit
This iPhone case protects your precious cellphone, yes, but it also features a slide-out drawer outfitted with a mirror, tweezers, bottle opener, stylus, screwdriver, USB drive, mini LED light and even a pair of scissors. It's TSA compliant, so it's safe to go through the X-ray machine. Mytask URBAN iphone case, $60.
Louis Vuitton shower-trunk
If a standard suitcase won't cut it, you'll be pleased to know one of LV's made-to-order options now includes this shower-in-a-trunk -- a suitcase that turns into a shower. The bad news is you'll only be given a price quote if you commission the brand to make one. Risky. Louis Vuitton, price on request.
Williams Handmade luggage
Williams Handmade is a luxury leather luggage company founded by creative genius Sarah Williams -- a British designer whose background includes stints at some of the world's top leather goods companies. Her the cross-shaped Emmett case is lovely, but if you're an imaginative traveler with money to burn, her bespoke service is the easiest way to guarantee your luggage stands out. Williams Handmade, from $146.
Two-Person Sandless Beach Mat
This towel was reportedly developed for military use, made from a woven polyurethane material that sand won't stick to. It also won't absorb moisture, so it won't go moldy. Hammacher, $59.95.
Bang and Olufsen Beolit 12 travel speaker
This is just about the coolest-looking iPhone-ported speaker set you'll find. It comes with an eight-hour battery life. Beoplay, $599.
Hendrick's Gin with Traveler's Case
Why reduce yourself to a hip flask when a leather satchel says so much more? A bottle of gin isn't the only thing inside this leather bag -- you also get a hip flask and a cashmere and silk scarf. Harrods, $1,349.
The Orator's Briefcase PA System
This multipurpose suitcase is designed for businessmen making speeches on short notice. The case comes with a built-in, 20-watt amplifier, a pop-up lectern and two microphones. Hammacher, $349.95.
Jill Becker is a freelance travel journalist based in Atlanta. 
Tamara Hinson is a freelance travel and lifestyle journalist based in the UK.
