(InStyle) -- The multi-talented star Mandy Moore shares her stylish secrets.
Mandy Moore spins in a Chaiken cashmere dress and Ibisco belt.
1. Start defining your style
"It all goes back to wanting to be an individual. I have my days of not feeling super-great, but that's universal. My style has evolved as I've become more aware of myself as well as what looks good on me -- and what doesn't."
2. Find labels that work for you
"It's always nice to have a running tally of designers that fit your body well and that you feel comfortable in for any number of events. It makes you feel less limited."
3. Identify shapes that flatter
"I'm not super-picky about color. I'm more picky about the cut of a garment. I look terrible in anything bias-cut for instance, and I prefer Empire waists."  Mandy explains other fashion choices »
4. Dresses are secret weapons
"I love dresses! If it's flowy and loose, you don't have to worry about what shape you're in, frankly. Plus there's something romantic and ethereal about vintage dresses that I adore."
5. When in doubt, bring a belt
"I'm looking at my dress today, and I wish I had brought a belt with me because it looks like a gigantic tent. Having a belt to define your waist is always better than hiding behind something."
6. What really makes you look good
"If you're confident and you feel good, people pick up on that. And it doesn't really matter what's happening from the neck down. I'd rather be comfortable than anything else." InStyle.com: Witness Mandy's amazing style transformation
7. Some trends won't flatter you -- avoid them.
"I tried footless leggings and then I realized, this is not a trend for me. When something stops at your midcalf, it can be somewhat shortening. But I feel like long tights make any look ladylike and classy."
8. Find a great tailor
"I've been having trouble finding jeans lately. So I've been buying vintage high-waist trouser jeans and having them tailored. My tailor understands my body. She's always encouraging me to wear stuff tighter."
9. Hoop earrings work on everyone
"My friend Raina's always telling me to wear hoops. She's like, 'Even if you're in jeans, a T-shirt and flats, hoops are sexy, cool, and everyone looks good in them.' "
10. Give yourself a break
"You have to take a break and treat yourself. I treat myself by getting massages, manicures or pedicures. I treat myself by having a cookie or frozen yogurt, or whatever it may be, because I know I work hard and I deserve it." E-mail to a friend
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2009 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
