(CNN)  -- Arsenal were held to a frustrating goalless home draw by Sunderland in the English Premier League Saturday as they missed the chance to close to within a point of leaders Manchester United.
Gunners manager Arsene Wenger was left fuming after late decisions went against his title-chasing team at the Emirates.
Andrey Arshavin had the ball in the net, but it was ruled out for offside as TV replays showed the opposite.
The Russian international was also pulled down by Titus Bramble as he closed on goal, but strong penalty appeals were turned away.
"It's really disappointing and it's very difficult to take a decision like that in a game of this importance," Wenger told Sky Sports.
"We have to take it on the chin and continue to fight. But it's absolutely disappointing and unacceptable," added Wenger.
Arsenal, who were surprisingly beaten in the English League Cup final Sunday, now face a testing trip to Barcelona for their Champions League second leg tie.
They will be missing Theo Walcott and Robin van Persie and waiting on the fitness of captain Cesc Fabregas after their 2-1 win in the first leg.
Young midfielder Jack Wilshere was also injured in the Sunderland draw and could also miss out on the trip to the Nou Camp.
Manchester United, who still lead Arsenal by three points at the top, go to arch-rivals Liverpool Sunday.
In the evening kickoff, Manchester City consolidated third spot, seven points behind United, with an unimpressive 1-0 home win over Wigan.
David Silva scored the only goal just before halftime as his shot was fumbled by Wigan goalkeeper Ali Al Habsi.
Wigan are bottom, four points from safety after only one win since Boxing Day.
In other action Saturday, Birmingham came down to earth with a bump after their cup heroics as they were beaten 3-1 at home by fellow strugglers West Bromwich Albion and slip into the bottom three.
Bolton came from behind twice and saw visitors Aston Villa miss a penalty before claiming a dramatic 3-2 win. Gary Cahill scored twice for Bolton with substitute Ivan Klasnic grabbing the winner.
There was another five-goal thriller at Craven Cottage where Fulham beat Blackburn 3-2 after a late controversial penalty from Bobby Zamora.
Everton beat Newcastle 2-1 at St James Park while West Ham's revival continued with a 3-0 win over Stoke, their scoring rounded off by German international Thomas Hitzlsperger, who has been a big influence since returning from long-term injury.
The victory lifts the Hammers out of the bottom three in a congested relegation battle.
