More then three years after a suspected cop killer died while in solitary confinement at a Maryland jail, a federal grand jury Thursday indicted a former jail guard in connection with the case.
Anthony McIntosh, 48, a former corporal at the Prince George's County Detention Center outside of Washington, is charged with deprivation of civil rights and falsifying records in the June 29, 2008, death of Ronnie White.
Prosecutors allege McIntosh failed to call for medical attention when he found White unresponsive in his cell. They also accuse him of attempting to cover up his involvement in the matter.
White, 19, had been arrested two days earlier, charged with first-degree murder for allegedly running down Prince George's County Police Cpl. Richard Findley with a stolen truck.
White passed a physical examination when he was admitted to the jail, was checked regularly in his solitary confinement cell, and was fine at 10:15 a.m. the day of his death, authorities said at the time. But when guards brought him his lunch 20 minutes later, he had no pulse.
Initially, authorities said there was no sign of visible trauma to White, but an autopsy later revealed he died of asphyxiation and had two broken bones in his neck. Experts said it is virtually impossible for a person to strangle himself with his own hands.
Seven corrections officials and an unspecified number of supervisors were the only ones authorized to be in White's cell, authorities said.
Community leaders at the time decried White's death as "vigilante justice," and many voiced suspicions that jailers had killed him.
The indictment sidesteps the question of who, if anyone, killed White. But it says that McIntosh discovered White in his cell unresponsive, but "walked away without providing medical care" or notifying anyone. McIntosh thereby acted "with deliberate indifference to a substantial risk of harm to (White), and resulting in bodily injury to, and the death of (White)," the indictment reads.
That inaction deprived (White) of his constitutional rights, which includes an inmate's right "to be free from a correctional officer's deliberate indifference to his serious medical needs," the indictment said.
McIntosh later concealed material facts when he wrote up incident reports, the indictment says. Specifically, McIntosh stated in his report that a corporal informed him White was unresponsive in his cell, but omitted that McIntosh had previously discovered him unresponsive and had left without notifying anyone.
McIntosh was arrested Thursday in New York City by the FBI, the Department of Justice said. McIntosh faces a maximum penalty of life in prison for the civil rights offense. He faces up to 20 years in prison on each of two counts of falsification of records. The maximum fine for each count is $250,000.
CNN was unable to identify and contact an attorney representing McIntosh.
The case is being investigated by the Baltimore Division of the FBI and is being prosecuted by the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice.
