A California jury on Wednesday found the Los Angeles Dodgers negligent in a civil lawsuit related to the beating of San Francisco Giants fan Bryan Stow following a 2011 baseball game.
The same jury did not find the Dodgers then-owner, Frank McCourt, negligent in the case.
Earlier this year, two California men pleaded guilty for their roles in Stow's beating. Marvin Norwood and Louie Sanchez were sentenced to four years and eight years, respectively.
Wednesday's verdict was in a civil case.
The jury found the Dodgers organization 25% responsible for Stow's injuries, while Sanchez and Norwood were each found 37.5% responsible. It is not yet clear whether there will be an appeal.
The lawsuit sought a total of $50 million to cover Stow's medical costs for him and his two children.
If the decision is upheld, Stow would -- in theory -- receive just short of $18 million in damages total. In practice, the amount will be around $15 million, his lawyer told reporters.
"That's going to go a long way to helping Bryan," said Stow's attorney, Thomas Girardi. He explained the breakdown:
"All the medical expenses in the past, all the future medical expenses, all the past loss of earnings and all the future loss of earnings, which is about say $14 million, just in rough terms, the Dodgers ... they have to pay all of that. Then, with respect to the pain and suffering -- about $4 million or so -- they only have to pay 25% of that," he said.
The remainder of the settlement, Girardi said, would be paid by Norwood and Sanchez. But since they don't have that kind of money, Stow -- realistically -- will get some $15 million,Girardi said.
The lawsuit contends the Dodgers and former owner Frank McCourt did not provide enough lighting and security in the stadium parking lot the night Stow was beaten. Lawyers for the Dodgers and McCourt argued that their clients acted reasonably, and that Stow was intoxicated and aggressive before the assault.
Stow appeared at the trial several times in a wheelchair.
Man convicted in Dodgers beating case arrested on gun charge
Dad of severely beaten Giants fan calls two sentenced men 'cretins'
