World number one Rafael Nadal had to battle hard to reach the third round of the French Open after a stiff test against fellow Spaniard Pablo Andujar.
After being taken to five sets by American John Isner in the opening round, Nadal was made to work hard for a three-hour 7-5 6-3 7-6 (7-4) victory at Roland Garros.
The 24-year-old, who is looking for his sixth French Open title, will now play Antonio Veic in the next round after the Croatian defeated Russian 28th seed Nikolay Davydenko 3-6 6-2 7-5 3-6 6-1.
After his match, AFP reported that Nadal refused to blame the conditions: "For a moment today I played better, but in general the match wasn't good for me -- not because of the wind though," Nadal said.
"I am practicing well, but not playing well when I play matches -- no excuses. The conditions can have an effect, but it's better to find solutions inside myself than outside.
"My movement is still a little bit slow. I am not happy, but I am here. The beginning of Roland Garros is always tough for me."
Just like in his opening match, Nadal was sluggish in patches and world number 48 Andujar took advantage to push his opponent to the wire in the first and third sets.
The pair exchanged four consecutive breaks of serve in the opening set but when Nadal clinched the second 6-3 with relative ease, a comfortable win looked on the cards.
But Andujar raced into a 5-1 lead in the final set after breaking serve twice, Nadal surviving an incredible seven set points to force the match into a tie-break, which he eventually won 7-4.
Elsewhere, British fourth seed Andy Murray beat Simone Bolelli 7-6 (7-3) 6-4 7-5 in blustery, overcast conditions on Court Philippe Chatrier.
A series of double faults cost Murray ground in the opening set but he battled back into contention to force two set points before taking the tie-break 7-3.
Murray's game came together in the second set as he broke his opponent's serve in game seven and took the set but the third was another evenly matched affair. The world number four said the "brutal" conditions made life difficult on court.
"The wind was swirling the whole time," Murray told reporters. "It was changing during the rallies so you'd think on one shot 'I've got the wind with me' and it was changing, so there's no real rhythm -- it was really tricky today."
Fifth seed Robin Soderling, from Sweden, beat Spanish qualifier Albert Ramos 6-3 6-4 6-4 while Spaniard Fernando Verdasco beat Belgium's Xavier Malisse 6-4 3-6 7-6 (7-5) 6-1.
American Mardy Fish eased past Robin Haase, while Colombian Alejandro Falla knocked out German 20th seed Florian Mayer.
Sam Querrey, the 24th seed, was defeated by Ivan Ljubicic and Serbian 15th seed Viktor Troicki saw off Tobias Kamke.
