Cristiano Ronaldo -- the man known as CR7.
So while he managed to take his career goals tally to 400 with a double in Real Madrid's 3-0 win over Celta Vigo Monday, it's rather ironic that he has never scored in the seventh minute of a professional football match.
In fact, Ronaldo has registered in every single minute of a football match throughout his career -- but never in the seventh.
Ronaldo, who brought up the landmark in his 653rd match for club and country, has scored 230 goals for Real, 118 for Manchester United, five for Sporting Lisbon and 47 for Portugal.
The 28-year-old has scored against 109 different teams, in 87 different stadiums with 332 goals coming from inside the penalty area.
Real's victory in its first game back since the winter break, came courtesy Ronaldo's double and an opening strike from Karim Benzema.
Ronaldo dedicated his goals to fellow countryman Eusebio -- one of Portugal's greatest players, who passed away at the age of 71 on Sunday.
Real, which has played 18 games, sits third, five points behind leaders Barcelona and city rival Atletico.
"It was not a good performance and we need to learn how to be tighter at the back," Real coach Carlo Ancelotti told a news conference.
"We lacked balance as we had a lot of players going forward and were open to the counter-attack.
"Celta defended deeply and it wasn't easy but we should have been more balanced when we pressed."
Arsenal
In England, Arsenal star Theo Walcott has been ruled out for up to six months after suffering an anterior cruciate ligament injury.
The winger, who suffered the blow during the 2-0 FA Cup win over fierce rival Tottenham on Saturday, is also a huge doubt for the World Cup.
In a statement on its website, Arsenal said: "After coming off injured in Saturday's 2-0 win against Tottenham Hotspur, the Club regrettably announces that Theo Walcott has sustained a ruptured anterior cruciate ligament of his left knee.
"Theo will have surgery in London in the near future and is expected to be out for at least six months, therefore missing the remainder of the season and the World Cup in Brazil in the summer.
"Everyone at Arsenal wishes Theo a speedy recovery and we look forward to seeing him back on a football pitch as soon as possible."
The England star faces a race against time to be ready for the World Cup with his country's first game set to take place against Italy on June 14.
Walcott, who has scored five times in 36 appearances at international level, made his debut at the age of 17 in 2006.
Rossi
Meanwhile, Italy's top scorer Giuseppe Rossi could miss up to three months of the season after being forced to undergo surgery on his knee.
Rossi, who lost two years of his career after suffering an anterior cruciate ligament injury and required two operations, will visit U.S. surgeon Richard Steadman for treatment.
Fiorentina said Rossi picked up a second degree sprain to the medial collateral ligament during the 1-0 victory over Livorno on Sunday.
Rossi, who has scored 14 goals this season, limped out of the action following a poor tackle from Leandro Rinaudo.
"For a correct valuation of the extent of the damage and the outlook, a visit to a specialist will take place in the next few days," Fiorentina said in a statement.
On the pitch, Kaka inspired AC Milan to a 3-0 win over Atalanta in Serie A with his 100th goal for the club in all competitions.
He added a second after the break and 18-year-old Bryan Cristante netted a third on his full debut.
Milan manager, Massimiliano Allegri, who confirmed on Christmas Day that he will be leaving at the end of the season, told reporters he was delighted with Kaka's performance.
Milan
"Kaka played excellent football working for the team and scoring twice," Allegri said.
"I'm very happy for him and the objective that he's reached.
"We all need to be focused on ending the season in the best way that we can and aware that we still have a long way yet to go."
Elsewhere, Miroslav Klose's stunning strike gave Lazio a 1-0 win over Inter Milan to hand new manager Edoardo Reja a winning start to his second spell in charge.
Reja, who left the club 18 months ago, returned to Lazio after Vladimir Petkovic was sacked following the news that he was set to take over as Switzerland coach.
Napoli sit third in the table following a 2-0 win over Sampdoria thanks to a brace from Dries Mertens.
Verona moved into fifth place with a 3-1 win at Udinese with Luca Toni scoring twice, while Parma came from behind to defeat Torino 3-1 in a hard-fought contest.
At the bottom, Catania overcame Bologna 2-0 while Genoa defeated Sassuolo by the same scoreline.
