Thai police Wednesday linked a powerful explosion at a suburban Bangkok apartment building to anti-government protesters.
The death toll from Tuesday's blast grew to four as investigators recovered an unidentified body from the debris at the site, the country's emergency center said. Nine people also were injured.
Initial forensic evidence suggests the bomb was made from about 10 kilograms (22 pounds) of TNT and was being assembly at the apartment before it exploded, according to Gen. Wichean Potephosri, the national police chief, who said evidence found at the scene may link it to four other recent bombings.
The country's Crime Suppression Bureau said the room where investigators believe the bomb was assembled was rented by an anti-government supporter from Chiang Mai, who is wanted on an arrest warrant in another bombing case.
Tuesday's blast damaged the first and second floors of the Saman Meta Apartment building in Nonthaburi province, just outside the capital, Bang Bua Thong police said. The building has been sealed off while police collect forensic evidence, but authorities have said there is evidence of an explosive material at the site.
The anti-government protesters are known as "Red Shirts" -- so named for the color of their clothing.
On Tuesday, the Thai government extended an emergency decree in Bangkok and three provinces has been extended.
The decree allows authorities to detain suspects without formal charges up to 90 days.
The emergency rule was imposed in April after anti-government protests crippled much of Thailand.
The extension of the emergency rule also come after another protest in September where more than 10,000 anti-government demonstrators gathered in the heart of Bangkok's shopping district to mark the fourth anniversary of a bloodless coup that ousted Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.
That peaceful demonstration lasted about four hours as one of the city's main intersections was again flooded with "Red Shirt" demonstrators.
But that demonstration was a far cry from the bloody protests where Red Shirts amassed in the same area from March to May until a crackdown by the government's security forces left 91 people dead and more than 2,000 injured.
