If, like us, you've been wondering about the Red Viper's vaguely Spanish pedigree, you may finally be getting an answer.
A medieval castle in southern Spain will serve as the newest backdrop in the next season of "Game of Thrones."
The staff of the Alcazar of Seville confirmed that the castle has been chosen as a filming site for the series, with shooting slated to begin in October.
Although Alcazar staff didn't confirm the specific fictional landscape the castle will portray, various Internet reports speculate the castle will stand in for the Water Gardens of Dorne, the summer residence of House Martell.
Barring flashbacks or resurrection (please?), we likely won't get to see the charismatic Red Viper, aka Prince Oberyn, in his native setting.
But his elder brother, Prince Doran, should be holding court, and hopefully plotting devastating revenge for his brother's explosive (in a manner of speaking) death in season four of the hugely popular fantasy series that pivots on blood feuds between rival kingdoms.
The biggest champion of the series' latest destination has been U.S. Ambassador to Spain James Costos, a former vice president at HBO, who announced the news Tuesday.
No doubt Spain is excited to receive the flood of "Game of Thrones" tourism that shooting locations in Croatia and Northern Ireland have experienced, although the Seville castle is already a popular destination in its own right.
HBO hasn't yet announced a premiere date for the fifth season of the program.
Royal palace
Built in 712 and designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1987, the Alcazar of Seville was originally built as a fortress and became a royal residence in 1248.
It still serves as a royal palace today, and is renowned for its Arabic influences and Mudejar art.
"We've been working with them to organize everything and are really glad with their final decision," an Alcazar representative tells CNN. "We have broad experience in (filming) -- 'Lawrence of Arabia,' 'The Kingdom of Heaven' -- so we're sure it'll be a success for both parties."
In addition to the castle, more "Game of Thrones" filming destinations in Spain -- most likely to do with story lines involving House Martell -- are expected to be announced.
