A man authorities believe was the last person to see a missing Texas cheerleader is the focus of the investigation and his attorney said he has offered all the information he knows.
Shawn Adkins, the live-in boyfriend of Hailey Dunn's mother, is the only named person of interest in the girl's December disappearance, authorities said Wednesday.
Adkins' attorney, Sidney Lyle of Odessa, told CNN affiliate KTAB in Abilene he has advised his client not to speak further with the media. And he told affiliate KTXS that Adkins has cooperated with law enforcement.
Lyle did not respond to CNN's attempts to talk to him.
There have been no arrests in the disappearance of the Colorado City girl, 13, but police consider the case a criminal investigation. Two volunteer organizations have recently joined the search.
City Manager Pete Kampfer, who serves as spokesman for the police, told CNN Wednesday there are other persons of interest but "there are more things that relate" to Adkins. He would not provide specifics. Adkins has not spoken with police since getting a lawyer, he said.
Affidavits in the case indicate Hailey's mother, Billie Dunn, and Adkins failed polygraph exams on Hailey's whereabouts.
According to the affidavits, Adkins ended two polygraph exams by walking out. On the third try, he failed the initial part of the test, but he then "made a positive indication" that the girl could be found in Scurry County, Texas. Dunn said Adkins was on anxiety medication at the time of the first test.
Dunn was under the influence of narcotics on her first polygraph examination, and she failed the second, according to a law enforcement affidavit posted on the website of KTAB.
Adkins was the last person to see the eighth-grader on December 27 at Dunn's home, according to local reports. Colorado City -- a rural central Texas town with about 5,000 residents -- is about 70 miles west of Abilene, Texas. Hailey was reported missing by her mother December 28.
The Colorado City Police Department responded to a domestic dispute in February 2010 after Adkins allegedly threatened Billie and Hailey Dunn, the released documents show. Adkins confirmed he did make the threats, according to documents.
KTAB on Wednesday posted three 911 calls on its website from the February incident. The calls referred to threats made against Billie Dunn and her estranged husband, Clint, but not against Hailey, the station said.
In one 911 call, Billie Dunn said, "I broke up with this guy a couple days ago and he's a little 'MHMR.' He's telling me that he's going to kill me and my ex-husband. And it's going to be remembered for a long time."
MHMR can refer to "mental health and mental retardation."
Asked about the 911 calls and affidavits, Kampfer said, "They add to the case against Shawn."
Billie Dunn told HLN's "Nancy Grace" Wednesday night that she did not report that Adkins had threatened to kill Hailey.
Marc Klaas, founder of KlaasKids Foundation, a child safety advocacy group that is assisting in the search for Hailey, appeared on "Nancy Grace" with Billie Dunn.
He indicated someone not identified in the case might have come into the town and abducted the girl.
Klaas created the foundation in 1994 after the kidnapping and murder of his daughter, Polly.
Investigators have found evidence both in Colorado City and in other locations, said Kampfer, a former special agent with the FBI.
Dunn has said she has no idea what happened to her daughter.
"Somebody knows where she is," she told HLN last week.
The mother told HLN's "Nancy Grace" Tuesday that investigators took bedsheets belonging to Hailey.
Kampfer would not confirm that, but did say Dunn was given an inventory list of items taken by police from the home.
Meanwhile, KTXS said that Hailey Dunn's older brother has been taken into temporary custody of Child Protective Services. Kampfer said it is common practice to remove a child when a situation like this occurs, the station said.
Billie Dunn met Adkins on the MySpace social networking site more than two years ago, and he moved in with her several months ago. Kampfer described the family situation as unstable.
Hailey is 5 feet 2 inches tall and weighs 120 pounds. She has hazel eyes and brown hair with blond streaks. When she disappeared, she was wearing navy blue sweatpants, a light-colored short-sleeve T-shirt and pink and white tennis shoes.
Investigators, meanwhile, continue to work through leads. "It's a smaller circle," Kampfer said of the evidence.
"We are growingly concerned about her status," he said of Hailey.
CNN's Phil Gast contributed to this report.
Watch Nancy Grace Monday through Sunday starting at 8 p.m. ET on HLN. For the latest from Nancy Grace click here.
