We've been asking you to make connections between two seemingly different countries -- and more than a month into Global Connections, the response so far has been amazing.
Thanks again to everyone who made links between China and Turkey, the latest pair of countries we've been trying to connect.
We started the week talking to Craig Glenday , editor-in-chief of Guinness World Records.
He told CNN's Becky Anderson about some sporting ties the two countries share. One of the links he found was wrestling, which is popular in both Turkey and Inner Mongolia in China. Glenday also noted that both countries are known for having athletes who excel in weightlifting.
Map: See the countries that have been connected so far
Many of you noted that the flags of both countries are similar -- both feature stars against a red background.
"Mihaj" used the Silk Road to link the two, noting that it is the oldest commercial trade route and used to span between China and Turkey.
In keeping with the historic theme, blog commenter "Pamela Ann Smith" said that Turkey's exquisite Iznik pottery, which has blue floral motifs, owes much to the development of rare blue ceramic dyes in China.
We took a look at how rapidly China is changing by examining some cool interactives made by Chinfographics. We also spoke to Jung Chang, author of "Wild Swans" and "Mao: The Unknown Story."
We always love personal stories and were so excited when a couple about to tie the knot in Istanbul shared some connections. Bride Deniz Tura told us that three of her friends are coming from China for the upcoming wedding.
Istanbul's contemporary cultural scene was another topic we explored. Our city guide highlights some of the city's best contemporary museums and music venues.
Turkey and China can be tied together through their membership in the G-20. They also both have fast-growing economies and are emerging powers, said "Momolu Dorley."
The two countries also share linguistic ties," Richard Wojcik" said. The language of the Uighurs, a Muslim minority group in China, is a Turkic language and falls in the same language family as Turkish.
Please keep sending us your comments. The next set of countries we're looking at is Australia and Angola. Check out our quiz to see how much you know about these two countries, and if you make any links, leave us a message on the blog. As usual, we'll investigate the best on Connect the World.
Happy connecting!
