Jenson Button snatched a sensational victory at a rain-affected Canadian Grand Prix on Sunday as world champion Sebastian Vettel made a mistake on the final lap in Montreal.
The German had been poised to claim his sixth victory in seven Formula One races this season after avoiding the earlier chaos behind him, but locked his wheels at a corner to let 2009 world champion Button to complete remarkable fightback.
The English driver had an early collision with Lewis Hamilton that ended his McLaren teammate's race, and received a drive-through penalty for speeding while the safety car was out.
Then, following a delay of more than two hours due to a downpour, Button suffered a punctured tire after a collision with Ferrari's Fernando Alonso that resulted in Spain's two-time world champion crashing into a wall -- and the incident will be investigated by race stewards.
F1 championship standings
"Even if I hadn't won I would have enjoyed this race immensely, but it's a win, definitely my best," Button told reporters.
"I'm definitely going to be celebrating. I'll have a good night and enjoy what I achieved. A big thank you to the team for what they've done."
Vettel, who has not finished outside the top two this season, admitted he was disappointed not to win in the circumstances after starting the race in pole position.
"I was probably too conservative at the last safety car and I did not open up enough of a gap. Then when it came down to the fight at the end the mistake was down to me, I locked up the rear," he said.
"It is still a good day as many mistakes were made and cars did not finish, yet we've picked up good points."
Vettel claims pole ahead of Ferrari pair in Montreal
Button moved up to second place in the drivers' standings, 60 points behind Vettel, whose Red Bull teammate Mark Webber denied seven-time world champion Michael Schumacher his first podium finish since returning from retirement last year.
Hamilton, who dropped to fourth overall, was also involved in an early incident with Webber in the fifth lap soon after the safety car departed.
The race started behind the guide vehicle due to the poor visibility, and it made lengthy returns due to the wet weather and subsequent accidents.
The stewards will also be investigating a clash between Mercedes' Nico Rosberg and Force India's Adrian Sutil.
With the drivers behind him switching tires as the conditions changed, Vettel was able to wait until the 54th lap before changing to slicks and managed to come out still in front.
A frantic battle was going on for podium placings as Schumacher took advantage of a tussle between Ferrari's Felipe Massa and Sauber's Kamui Kobayashi to claim second.
The German survived one attack from Webber, who had to give back the advantage after illegally cutting across a corner to go through, but Button managed to get past both of them to earn a crack at Vettel.
The 31-year-old reduced Vettel's lead to just 0.9 seconds going into the final lap as he continued to set the fastest times in a race in which he made six pit-stops.
His 23-year-old rival buckled under the pressure, giving Button the chance to surge past and claim the 10th win of his career and his first since China in April 2010.
Vitaly Petrov finished fifth for Lotus Renault while Massa edged Kobayashi for sixth place, Toro Rosso's Jaime Alguersuari were eighth and 10th, while Williams' veteran Brazilian Rubens Barrichello was ninth.
