American Webb Simpson capitalized on a last-hole collapse from compatriot Chez Reavie to win the Deutsche Bank Championship on Monday.
Reavie, 29, held a one-shot lead heading into the par-five 18th hole at TPC Boston, but he hit his first bogey of the final round to hand Simpson the chance to force a playoff.
Simpson, 26, then sunk a 30-foot putt to draw level with Reavie on 15-under-par, before carding two birdies in the playoff to clinch his second tournament victory in three weeks.
The win lifted Simpson to the top of the FedEx Cup standings, with two tournaments remaining in the season-ending series.
The North Carolina native's August victory at the Wyndham Championship in his home state was his first PGA Tour triumph, but he said his previous success did not make his duel with Reavie any easier.
"I told somebody early this week that I feel like next time I was in contention, it'll be a lot easier than Greensboro," Simpson, who is ranked 14 in the world, told the PGA Tour's official web site.
"And it wasn't that way at all. It was just as hard. The shots and the putts were just as hard. I think it helped calm me down a little, but it was like I had never won a golf tournament before."
Reavie was disappointed to see his hopes of a second Tour win slip away, although he was pleased with the form he had displayed in the tournament.
"Unfortunately, my wedge didn't quite work out," Reavie said. "But all in all on the day, I played fantastic."
World number one Luke Donald saw his chances of success take a hit with a double bogey at the 12th, and the Briton eventually finished tied for second place with American Brandt Snedeker and Jason Day of Australia on 13-under.
The 2003 U.S. Open champion Jim Furyk finished one-shot further back in sixth place on the leaderboard, ahead of his fellow American Bo Van Pelt in seventh.
Australian Adam Scott and Hunter Mahan shared eighth place on 10 under, with four-time major winner Phil Mickelson one of six Americans who tied for 10th position.
The next round of the FedEx Cup series is the BMW Championship in Illinois, which begins on September 15, before the Tour Championship on September 22.
