Roberto Soldado scored his first hat-trick for Tottenham Hotspur as the English Premier League side routed Russia's Anzhi Makhachkala 4-1 in the Europa League Group K match at White Hart Lane on Thursday.
The Spanish striker scored two quick-fire goals in the opening quarter-of-an-hour. A glancing header from Gylfi Sigurdsson's curling free kick put Spurs in front after seven minutes with a second coming nine minutes later as Soldado met Eric Lamela's perfectly timed through ball to fire home from six yards.
Ewerton Jose Almeida Santos halved the deficit for the visitors a minute before halftime, but two second-half goals -- Lewis Holtby in the 54th minute and Soldado from the penalty spot 16 minutes later -- saw Andre Villas Boas's side top the group in style with six wins from six matches.
Anzhi, who were also guaranteed to qualify whatever the result of Thursday's matches, finish with eight points while Sheriff Tiraspol finished third with six after beating bottom side Tromso 2-0.
Fellow English Premier League side Swansea City also booked their place in the last 32 despite losing 1-0 to FC St Gallen in Group A.
Michael Laudrup's side join table-toppers Valencia who drew their final match 1-1 against Russia's Kuban Krasnodar at the Mestalla Stadium.
But former European and UEFA Cup winners PSV Eindhoven are out after FC Chornomorets Odesa won 1-0 at the Philips Stadion in Group B.
Franck Dja Djedje 59th minute goal sealed the Ukrainian side progress at the expense of Phillip Cocu's side.
Group winners Ludogorets Razgrad capped a fine group stage with a 2-1 away to bottom-of-the-table Dinamo Zagreb. The Bulgarian side were unbeaten over their six matches claiming five wins and a draw.
In Group C, both Austria's FC Red Bull Salzburg and Esbjerg fB had already qualified before their meeting on Thursday but it was Roger Schmidt's Salzburg side which came out on top winning 3-0 at the Red Bull Arena to take the maximum 18 points from the group.
Russia's Rubin Kazan confirmed their dominance of Group D with a 2-0 win against Zulte Waregem.
The Belgian side had been lying second in the table before Thursday's matches but lost out on qualification to Slovenia's Maribor who handed new Wigan manager Uwe Rosler a 2-1 defeat in his first game in charge.
Fiorentina sealed first place in Group E with a 2-1 win against second place FC Dnipro.
The Ukrainian's took the lead in the game at the Stadio Artemio Franchi with a goal from Yevhen Konoplianka in the 13th minute before Spanish midfielder Joaquin equalized in the 42nd minute. Colombia's Juan Cuadrado got the winner 13 minutes before the end.
The match between Pandurii Targu-Jiu and Paços de Ferreira finished goalless.
Eintracht Frankfurt's 2-0 win over Apoel Nicosia saw the Bundesliga side top Group F with Maccabi Tel Aviv claiming second with a 1-0 win against Ligue 1 side Bordeaux.
Genk were guaranteed to top Group G whatever happened on Thursday night but a 1-0 away win against Swiss outfit Thun saw the Belgian side maintain their unbeaten record and finish with 14 points.
The battle for second was won by Dynamo Kiev. The Ukrainian side only needed a draw against SK Rapid Vienna to guarantee qualification but ran out 3-1 winners.
Sevilla's 2-0 win at Freiburg saw the Spanish side seal top spot in Group H with the Czech team Slovan Liberec grabbing second place with a 2-1 win against Estoril.
Real Betis will join French side Lyon in the last 32 after sealing second place in Group I.
The La Liga strugglers drew 0-0 with Croatia's HNK Rijeka to finish with nine points, three less than Lyon who scored a win in their final game beating Vitoria 2-1 in Portugal.
Turkey's Trabzonspor drew 0-0 with Lazio to hold onto top spot in Group J ahead of the Serie A side who also qualify for the knockout stages. Holland's AZ Alkmaar and Greek side PAOK FC are the qualifiers from Group L.
The draw for the round of 32 takes place on Monday December 16 at 12pm GMT in Nyon, Switzerland.
Twenty-four teams from the Europa League are joined by the eight teams who finished third in their respective Champions League groups.
The full list of 32 teams is as follows:
Valencia, Swansea City, Ludogorets Razgrad, FC Chornomorets Odesa, FC Red Bull Salzburg, Esbjerg fB, Rubin Kazan, Maribor, Fiorentina, FC Dnipro, Eintracht Frankfurt, Maccabi Tel Aviv, KRC Genk, Dynamo Kiev, Sevilla, Slovan Liberec, Lyon, Real Betis, Trabzonspor, Lazio, Tottenham Hotspur, Anzhi Makhachkala, PAOK Salonika & AZ Alkmaar.
Shakhtar Donetsk, Juventus, Benfica, Viktoria Plzen, Basel, Napoli, Porto & Ajax join the competition from the Champions League.
Read more: Grosskreutz's late strike puts Dortmund into last 16
