A CBS correspondent was brutally attacked Friday in Cairo's Tahrir Square after the resignation of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, the network said in a statement released Tuesday.
Lara Logan, 39, was covering celebrations for a "60 Minutes" story, the network said, when a frenzied mob of about 200 people surrounded her, her crew and their security team. Separated from the others in the chaos, Logan was surrounded, beaten and sexually assaulted, the statement said.
A group of women and about 20 Egyptian soldiers intervened to rescue the correspondent, the network said.
Logan reconnected with her team and returned to her hotel, CBS said. She returned Saturday to the United States, where she has been hospitalized.
CBS said it would have no further comment and that Logan and her family requested privacy.
Logan, a native of South Africa, began her work with CBS on "60 Minutes II" in 2002 and then moved to the original "60 Minutes" two years later. She was promoted to chief foreign correspondent in 2006 and to chief foreign affairs correspondent in 2008.
Earlier during the Cairo protests, Logan and her crew were detained overnight and interrogated.
"We were not attacked by crazy people in Tahrir Square," Logan told Esquire's The Politics Blog about the February 3 incident. "We were detained by the Egyptian army. Arrested, detained and interrogated. Blindfolded, handcuffed, taken at gunpoint, our driver beaten. It's the regime that arrested us. They arrested (our producer) just outside of his hotel, and they took him off the road at gunpoint, threw him against the wall, handcuffed him, blindfolded him. Took him into custody like that."
Logan spoke with the magazine Thursday night as she boarded a plane for her return to Egypt, saying that her interrogators accused her and her crew of being "Israeli agents," kept them in "stress positions" throughout the night and only reluctantly gave her medical treatment for an illness.
"I was violently, violently ill," she said. "I'd been ill for a few days -- I hadn't mentioned it to anyone at CBS."
At first, she said, they ignored her condition "until I vomited so much that they did have a medic see me at this secret facility -- they wouldn't tell us where we were. Then I was begging for an IV, and at first they wouldn't. I vomited up everything that the medic gave me. I vomited all over the interrogation cell. I vomited all over this office they put me in after that, and so eventually they put me on an IV."
