Liverpool are close to sealing the first big-money move of the English close season after agreeing a fee for Sunderland midfielder Jordan Henderson.
The 20-year-old already has an England cap to his name, playing for Fabio Capello's side in a friendly against France in November last year.
Henderson is regarded as one of the brightest young talents in the English game and is going to cost the Anfield club a reported fee of $32 million, according to the UK Press Association, with French striker David Ngog going the other way.
It shows that Liverpool's American owners, Fenway Sports Group -- who also own Major League baseball team the Boston Red Sox -- are prepared to spend big in the transfer market to try and haul Liverpool back into the English top four.
Who will be football's top transfer targets?
The club missed out on Champions League football in 2010-11, finishing sixth in the table, and even failed to secure a Europa League place for next season despite an upturn in fortunes after former player Kenny Dalglish returned as manager.
A statement on the club's web site read: "Liverpool have agreed a deal to sign Sunderland midfielder Jordan Henderson.
"The 20-year-old will today discuss personal terms and undergo a medical on Merseyside after a fee was agreed between the two clubs."
Sunderland also confirmed the news on their web site, a spokesman saying: "A fee has been agreed with Liverpool for Jordan Henderson and he travels to Anfield with the club's blessing."
Henderson came through the ranks at Sunderland and made his debut for the club in the Premier League back in 2008. He is due to join up with England's Under-21 squad Wednesday ahead of the European Championships.
Sunderland chairman Niall Quinn, a former player at the club, said: "Jordan is a credit to himself, his family and Sunderland's Academy and everyone here wishes him the very best for the future," he said.
"I am pleased that we got the deal to a level that we felt was right for our club."
Meanwhile, Manchester United striker Wayne Rooney has welcomed news that the club have been linked with Blackburn Rovers defender Phil Jones.
The 19-year-old is also part of England's Under-21 European Championships squad and made his debut for Rovers in the English League Cup in 2009.
Rooney said on his Twitter site: "Phil Jones is a good young English player. One of the toughest defenders I played against last season. Can play midfield too."
He later added: "I don't know if Phil Jones is signing for us, just saying he is a good player that's all. I haven't got a clue if he is signing or not."
In Germany, Bayern Munich have confirmed the signing of Schalke goalkeeper Manuel Neuer on a five-year contract.
"I'm very happy in Germany, I'm the national team goalkeeper, and Bayern Munich is the best club in Germany. That's why I wanted to join Bayern," Neuer told the club's web site.
"I know exactly what I want. I'm looking forward to the next five years, and I don't know if it'll just be the five years. I'm sure it could be more."
