The Miami Dolphins have suspended a defensive lineman after he allegedly touched women and then took an "aggressive fighting stance" when police attempted to arrest him, according to a probable cause affidavit.
Police arrested Derrick Shelby after using a stun gun on him three times, according to a supplemental police report.
Shelby, 25, who is in his third season with the team, was at a Fort Lauderdale dance club early Saturday when security guards told police he was causing a disturbance, the affidavit says.
Shelby was "touching females at location without their permission," it says. Security removed him from the club, and a police officer told him several times to stop obstructing a roadway and the club entrance.
Shelby refused, according to police, and asked the officer, "What are you going to do?"
Appearing to be intoxicated, he began filming and photographing the officer, who called for backup, the affidavit states. Shelby was again asked to leave and refused before police told him he was under arrest for trespassing.
"Upon attempting to place Shelby into custody he began pushing away from officers and took an aggressive fighting stance," the affidavit says. "Shelby was placed on the ground, where he was actively resisting and attempting to brace his arms to defeat efforts to place him into custody."
Shelby was "overpowering officers," according to the supplemental report, so an officer used a stun gun on him, but to no effect because of "the proximity of the prongs on his back."
The officer used the stun gun on him again in the right shoulder, "which was temporarily effective in gaining more control over Shelby, but he immediately returned to actively resisting and trying to free his other hand," the report says.
After police stunned Shelby a third time, they were able to take him into custody and transport him to a local hospital and then the Broward Sheriff's Office jail.
He was charged with resisting without violence and trespass after warning, both misdemeanors, police documents say. He was released on a $100 bond, according to CNN affiliate WFOR-TV.
A mug shot released by the sheriff's office shows a bloodied Shelby with obvious injuries to his lip and left cheek.
A woman at defense attorney Daniel Rosenberg's office said Rosenberg was in court Monday morning and would comment later. Phone and email messages weren't immediately returned, but Rosenberg told The Miami Herald that Shelby "maintains his innocence" and said the mug shot "speaks volumes," considering the charge of resisting without violence.
The Dolphins suspended the former University of Utah player indefinitely "for conduct detrimental to the team," according to a news release.
"We were disappointed to learn about Derrick's arrest," head coach Joe Philbin said in a statement. "Based on my conversations with Derrick and the information we have thus far, Derrick will be placed on Indefinite Club Suspension. When we have completed all of the necessary diligence, we will make a final determination on his discipline."
The Dolphins were off this weekend after traveling to London in week four to play the Oakland Raiders.
The arrest marks yet more negative publicity for the NFL, which has seen numerous players in recent weeks suspended or placed on voluntary leave after alleged instances of domestic or child abuse.
Fort Lauderdale police documents do not elaborate on the allegation that Shelby was touching women at the club, saying only that security alleged he did not have their permission.
CNN's Vivian Kuo and Wayne Sterling contributed to this report.
