Lady Gaga may have to disappoint a lot of her "little monsters" in Indonesia after Jakarta police recommended that her sold-out June 3 show not be issued a permit because of security concerns.
"Yes, it is for sure, the promoter will not get a permit to hold the concert," National Police spokesman Saud Usman Nasution said Tuesday.
The concert promoter, Big Daddy Entertainment, declined to comment on the development.
"Please wait for further official information from us," spokesman Alif Ramadoni said.
There has been an outcry against Lady Gaga performing among Islamists and conservative Muslims, who say her revealing costumes and sensual dance moves are "haram," an Arabic term that means "forbidden by Islamic law."
The chairman of the Islamic Defenders Front, Habib Rizieq, said his group could not guarantee what might happen, as far as security goes, if the concert were held.
The pop star was given a thumbs-down in March by a "high-ranking member" of the country's highest Islamic authority, according to The Jakarta Globe.
The report said that Indonesian Council of Ulema chairman Cholil Ridwan was urging Muslims not to attend the overtly sexy and controversial singer's upcoming concert in Jakarta.
"[The concert is] intended to destroy the nation's morality," Ridwan told the Globe.
Ridwan is concerned that the singer's revealing outfits and sexy dance moves will set a bad example for Muslim youths.
Newspaper reports said more than 25,000 tickets were sold in the first two hours after the concert went on sale in March. Police said the promoter should not have started selling tickets before getting a permit.
This isn't the first bit of controversy during the singer's "Born This Way" tour. Gaga also ran afoul of Christian groups in South Korea, prompting the government to ban kids under the age of 18 from attending her show.
Ahead of the concert in late April, detractors called it "pornographic" and a promotion of homosexuality.
Yoon Jung-hoon, a reverend who helped organize the "Civilians Network against the Lady Gaga Concert" movement, told the Chicago Tribune that his group collected 5,000 supporters on Facebook. He also advocated a boycott of the show's sponsor, Hyundai Card, in addition to Hyundai Motor Co., Korea's largest automaker.
"Some people can accept this as another culture, but its impact is huge beyond art and debases religions," Yoon said. "Even adults can't see her performance, which is too homosexual and pornographic."
The show went on as scheduled.
CNN's Kathy Quiano and journalist Tasha Tampubolon contributed to this report.
