Manchester United's Park Ji-Sung scored twice including an injury-time winner as they beat Wolverhampton Wanderers 2-1 on Saturday to cut Chelsea's lead at the top of the English Premier League to two points.
It was a scarcely convincing performance from United at Old Trafford and the visitors looked to be heading to a deserved point until the South Korean international burst into their penalty area to beat Marcus Hahnemann with a convincing finish.
Park had put United ahead in first half injury time only for Sylvan Ebanks-Blake to equalize for Wolves just after the hour mark with a neat turn and shot.
The result leaves United with 23 points from 11 games, with leaders Chelsea on 25 from 10. The reigning champions can re-open a five-point gap with victory over Liverpool at Anfield on Sunday.
Third-placed Arsenal will join United on 23 points if they beat promoted Newcastle in another Sunday fixture at the Emirates Stadium.
A sour note for Manchester United was the truncated return of England international midfielder Owen Hargreaves, the long-term injury absentee lasting just a few minutes in his first start for two years before he limped off with a hamstring strain.
"It was a long struggle," manager Alex Ferguson told MUTV.
"Given the changes I had to make, trying to get the continuity of performance was difficult.
"Some players played with touches of flu and others with diarrhoea, so we've done really well to get a result."
Earlier, Tottenham Hotspur suffered an hangover from their midweek Champions League triumph over Inter Milan as they went down 4-2 at Bolton in the lunchtime kick off.
Two goals from Kevin Davies, who would have impressed watching England manager Fabio Capello, including a second half penalty, put them 3-0 up at the Reebok with Greta Steinsson crashing home the second.
It was the cue for a belated Tottenham comeback as an Alan Hutton curler and superb volley from Roman Pavlyuchenko cut the deficit to a single goal, only for Martin Petrov to kill the game off in injury time.
They move above Tottenham on goal difference into fifth place, with Sunderland, who beat Stoke City 2-0, also on 15 points.
Meanwhile Fulham's Brete Hangeland headed a 94th-minute equalizer to salvage a 1-1 draw at home to Aston Villa, who are still searching for their first Premier League win since September.
Marc Albrighton had put Villa ahead just before halftime.
In the Scottish Premier League, Celtic have gone to the top with an amazing 9-0 thrashing of Aberdeen at Parkhead.
Anthony Stokes and Gary Hooper both scored hat-tricks in the rout which sees Celtic move two points clear of Rangers in the title race.
