The legendary computer club where Apple co-founders Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak first showed off their early retail computers is reuniting next month.
Tech-savvy members of the Homebrew Computer Club are scheduled to present at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif., the same city where tech giants Google and LinkedIn now have their headquarters.
SEE ALSO: Technostalgia: 20 Misty Memories of Personal Computing
A Kickstarter campaign, which aimed to raise $16,000 to fund the reunion, announced that the event will take place on Nov. 11. Original members of the club will be on hand to "celebrate their legacy and to impart their wisdom to the next generation of hackers and creators whose innovations will shape the future," according to the Kickstarter page.
The Homebrew Computer Club was founded in 1975 and, in typical Silicon Valley fashion, hosted its inaugural meeting at computer engineer Gordon French's garage in Menlo Park, Calif. "If one had to pick the single most important moment in personal computing history, the first meeting of the Homebrew Computer Club in that dimly lit garage in Menlo Park might be at the top of the list," the campaign's organizers said on Kickstarter.
So far, 25 members from the club's old guard, including Wozniak, have RSVPed for the reunion. Tickets for the public are being sold via the Kickstarter page; a single ticket costs $64, or $128 for a ticket and a limited-edition t-shirt. The campaign aimed to raise $16,000 to fund the event space, food, and travel for some of the club's original members. As of Saturday, more than 200 backers had pledged over $23,000 towards the event.
If the campaign raises $30,000, professional photographs from the event will be shared online. If $40,000 is raised, a micro-documentary will be made about the reunion.
What do you think was the Homebrew Computer Club's biggest contribution to technology? Tell us in the comments, below.
This article originally appeared on Mashable.
© 2013 MASHABLE.com. All rights reserved.
