A group of chemical weapons inspectors are taking the world closer to peace in the middle of a raging war that they cannot stop. For this they will receive the Nobel Peace Prize Tuesday.
The award ceremony begins at 11 a.m. local time (5 a.m. ET) in Oslo, Norway. The prize consists of a medal, a diploma and a cash award of 8 million Swedish kroner (nearly $1.2 million).
Many were surprised when the Norwegian Nobel Committee announced in October that the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons had won the award for work just begun in Syria to eliminate its poison gas stockpiles.
Even the recipients seemed blindsided. When the committee rang their headquarters in The Hague, Netherlands, no one picked up the phone.
There had been vigorous speculation in the world's press about who might take home the medal: Possibly Pakistan's girls' education activist Malala Yousufzai, the teen who was shot for trumpeting her cause, or Congolese physician Denis Mukwege, who treats victims of gang rape.
But, intended or not, the committee shifted the focus of the public eye back onto the war in Syria, which it seems to have lost sight of. Its stated aim in choosing the OPCW was to point out the progress in eliminating chemical weapons around the world.
Global signal
"We wanted to give a signal to the world that now we have the possibility to do away with a whole category of weapons of mass destruction," said Thorbjorn Jagland, chairman of the Nobel Committee.
This year also marks the 20-year anniversary of the Chemical Weapons Convention, which created the OPCW and calls on signatories to destroy their stockpiles.
"Eighty percent of chemical weapons have been eliminated and more than 90 percent of production capacity," Jagland said. He wants to see the rest of it go, too.
Few had heard of the OPCW before it was tasked with dismantling Syria's chemical stockpile, but Jagland denied that the development had anything to do with his committee's decision.
"Actually we decided this before what happened in Syria this summer," he said. "We awarded this organization because of what the organization has done."
"But of course," he added, "it's very important also now to give a kind of moral support to what it is going to do in Syria."
OPCW Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu was "pleasantly surprised" by the award.
He hopes the prize will inspire people to go beyond the elimination of weapons of mass destruction.
Uzumcu would like to see peace in Syria.
CNN's Laura Smith-Spark and Mick Krever contributed to this report
