Rep. Steve King said he agrees that the Obama administration needs to change its response to hostage situations but doesn't think the United States should go down the route of negotiating or paying ransoms.
"If you negotiate, if you pay ransom, you're going to get more hostages taken. There will be more kidnappings," the Iowa Republican said Tuesday on CNN's "New Day."
President Barack Obama ordered a review of how the United States handles overseas kidnappings of American citizens by terrorists, including how the families of captives are kept informed.
The administration has not indicated a willingness to negotiate or pay sums of money in exchange for hostages, a practice some governments have used to win the release of captives by ISIS.
Obama and other U.S. officials have denounced the practice, saying that money has helped the group grow stronger.
Following the most recent killing American aid worker Peter Kassig, King said Tuesday there are other things the government could do to better its overall response.
"I do think though that they need to improve their coordination between the agencies and do other things possible to help get these hostages free," he told CNN's Chris Cuomo. "I'm afraid this is not the last beheading we will see and we need to take a much more aggressive approach towards ISIS, and take them on in the Middle East."
The U.S. government has seen criticism by at least one family of one of the slain hostages, James Foley, whose parents said the administration needed to be more willing to negotiate with ISIS.
Rep. Peter Welch, a Democrat from Vermont who was also on "New Day," agreed that negotiating with terrorists would not be the right approach.
"We can't negotiate, we can't pay ransom. But...we do have to be as compassionate and as open and as accommodating to these families who find themselves in this incredibly tragic situation," he said, suggesting that having "a single point of contact that can give real answers in real time" to the families would be helpful.
