(InStyle.com) -- It's been a super-hot summer, in more ways than one: As temperatures across the country climbed to near-record highs, the stars headed seaside to frolic, clad in a slew of sexy, stylish swimsuits. Now that Labor Day is looming just around the corner, InStyle looks back at the best celebrity bikinis of 2010.
Best Metallic: Kim Kardashian  The bikini queen and reality show star looked top brass in this bronze triangle-top suit. On anyone else, the combination of metallic fabric, metallic accents and strings might be a little much, but on Kardashian, it's just right.
See all 33 of the best celebrity bikinis of 2010
Best Accessories: Sienna Miller  We like Miller's patterned bandeau bikini, but we love the layers of gold and silver jewelry she piled atop it while playing with on-again beau Jude Law on a beach in Ponzo, Italy.
Best Body: Halle Berry  It's hard to believe that the Oscar-winning actress is 44; in this cute suit-and-short-shorts combination, Berry showed off a body that women half her age would envy. We love her little "accessory" -- adorable 2-year-old daughter Nahla -- too.
The most iconic swimsuits of all time
Prettiest Pattern: Kate Bosworth  Bosworth first found fame in the 2002 surf flick "Blue Crush," so it's no surprise she'd make our top ten. Lounging poolside after a long weekend at the Coachella Music Festival, she looked downright groovy in this purple paisley two-piece.
Best Retro: Taylor Swift  A retro-style suit is a great option for a girl who wants to show some skin, but not too much. Swift kept her high-waist, polka-dot two-piece from looking like a throwback by wearing it with quirky sunglasses and a loose, easy braid.
10 hottest celebrity bikini trends
Best Blue: Ashley Greene  This pretty hue is a perennial swimsuit favorite -- no surprise, considering that it perfectly matches both a typical pool and the summer sky. The "Twilight" star's version, which she sported in Las Vegas, features a halter-style bandeau top, perfect for her lithe frame.
Cutest Cover-Up: Katharine McPhee  McPhee's striped bikini is chic on its own. But we love the pretty scarf she tied around her waist as an informal cover-up -- dark sunglasses and a light straw hat completed the stylish look.
More stars in bikinis
Best Not-So-Basic Black: Kirsten Dunst  Snapped poolside at the Hôtel du Cap-Eden-Roc, near Cannes, France, Dunst was proudly pale in a pretty black suit with a tie-front halter top. This one works for the "Spiderman" star because it offers support and just enough coverage.
Best Mix-and-Match: Megan Fox  As Fox demonstrated in Maui, a mis-matched two-piece can be even cuter than a perfectly coordinated style. Her denim-resembling bottom might be too much with a matching top, but it's perfect when paired with a striped triangle style.
Megan Fox's transformation
Best Bright: AnnaLynne McCord  In Miami, the "90210" star opted for a hot pink two-piece paired with multiple bracelets, necklaces and simple black shades. The vibrant color was perfect for the setting -- and brought out her (safe, we hope!) tan.
See tons more stars in bikinis on InStyle.com now!
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2010 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
