Hungary are through to the under-20 World Cup semifinals after a dramatic 3-2 victory over Italy in Suez in a match which saw four players sent off, three for the Italians, the official FIFA Web site has reported.
Krisztian Nemeth (right) scored two goals in extra time to see Hungary through in a dramatic quaterfinal.
The game began in dramatic circumstances when Italy defender Matteo Gentili shoved Liverpool striker Krisztian Nemeth in the penalty area in the opening minute.
Hungary captainr Vladimir Koman sent Vincenzo Fiorillo the wrong way from the spot to give Hungary an early lead -- the quickest goal of the tournament so far.
Both sides missed a host of chances to add to the scoreline, until Italy's chances took a turn for the worse when Gentili hauled down Nemeth again with 19 minutes remaining to collect a second yellow card.
Despite the man disadvantage, Italy rallied and levelled in the 82nd minute when substitute Giacomo Bonaventura threaded a delightful throughball to Antonio Mazzotta in the box and the left-back finished superbly.
Italy were reduced to nine men two minutes later when Francesco Bini was given a straight red card for kicking out at Koman.
However, the two-men numerical disadvantage did not last long as Adrian Szekeres was also dismissed for what appeared to be an elbow on Mattia Mustachio.
The match went into extra time and in the 112th minute, Koman found Nemeth with a delightful pass and the striker made no mistake.
Remarkably though, just a minute later Italy equalized again when Giacomo Bonaventura ran at the Hungary defence and unleashed a shot which flew home.
That was not the end of the drama. A second yellow to Michelangelo Albertazzi reduced the Italians to eight men and left their defense completely stretched.
And Hungary took advantage when Nemeth chased down a long ball before showing great composure to steer the ball home.
Hungary will now play Ghana in the last four after the African nation twice held off a spirited South Korean fightback to secure a 3-2 victory earlier in the day.
Ghana took an eighth minute lead when Dominic Adiyiah stabbed a Samuel Inkoom's ball past goalkeeper Kim Seung-Guy. It was the second quickest goal of Egypt 2009 and the striker's fifth of the tournament.
Ransford Osei doubled their lead 20 minutes later when David Addy found him lurking in the six-yard box and the FC Twente player fired home a left-foot strike.
However, Korea pulled a goal back three minutes later when Jeong Dong-Ho put in a cross from the right in-between the back four and goalkeeper and Park Hee-Seong took advantage by looping a header into the net.
The match looked over in the 78th minute when Mohammed Rabiu picked up a loose ball in midfield and slipped it to Adiyiah, who powered through and passed it into the net.
But still Korea refused to give in and they made it a nervy last eight minutes for Ghana when Yun Suk-Young crossed from deep and Kim Dong-Sub timed his run to perfection to glance a header into the net.
