As the first week of the John Edwards federal criminal trial comes to an end, where the former Democratic senator and presidential candidate is accused of using hundreds of thousands of dollars of donations to conceal his affair with a campaign videographer without reporting the money to federal authorities, we wanted to take a look back at some statistics about other politicians in trouble.
Based on these numbers, Edwards certainly isn't the first pol to get himself into some hot water -- personally, politically or legally.
2 - Number of presidents who have been impeached: Andrew Johnson in 1868 and Bill Clinton in 1998.
1 - Number of U.S. presidents who have resigned from office: Richard Nixon, on August 8, 1974.
18½ minutes - Length of the "gap" in the tape of a recorded conversation from June 1972 between Nixon and Chief of Staff Bob Haldeman about a break-in at the Watergate Hotel in Washington.
15 - Days between the U.S. Supreme Court ruling against Nixon, that executive privilege of the president is not above the law, and Nixon's resignation.
17 - Guilty verdicts in the retrial of Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich on corruption charges. He was sentenced in 2011 to 14 years.
4 - Governors of Illinois who have been sentenced to prison since 1973.
5 - Number of days South Carolina Gov. Mark Sanford was "missing" after hiking on the Appalachian Trail in 2009. The married governor revealed later that he had actually been in Buenos Aires, Argentina, visiting another woman.
57 - Percentage of people who think politicians seem to have a lot of sex scandals because they get caught more often.
19 - Percentage who say politicians have lower levels of morality than the rest of us.
Client 9 - Code name of a "subject" listed on an affidavit as being involved in a prostitution ring investigated by the FBI in 2008, identified as New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer. He resigned from office but wasn't charged by federal prosecutors.
$90,000 - Amount of "cold hard cash" found in the freezer of Rep. William Jefferson, D-Louisiana, after an FBI search that led to convictions in 2009 on 11 criminal counts, including bribery, money laundering and wire fraud.
7 years - Prison term for former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, found guilty in 2011 of abuse of authority for signing gas contracts with Russia.
101 - Current age of Bunny Mellon, a John Edwards presidential campaign donor and potential witness in his criminal trial.
Around 1,400 - Text messages exchanged between Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick and his mistress, using city-issued cell phones. He eventually spent about 14 months in prison after a parole violation relating to charges of obstruction of justice and assault, and was released in 2010.
2 - Number of members of Congress expelled for unethical conduct, since the Civil War. Rep. Jim Traficant, D-Ohio, was expelled in 2002 after convictions for bribery, racketeering and tax evasion, and Rep. Michael Myers, D-Pennsylvania, was expelled in 1980 for accepting money from undercover FBI agents.
1 - Congressman who voted to keep Traficant in the House. Rep. Gary Condit, D-California, was his sole support in a vote of 420-1 on July 25, 2002.
