It lasted 23 matches and 102 days but Chelsea's unbeaten run is over.
The English Premier League leaders were handed their first defeat of the season by Newcastle United.
"Super Sub" Papiss Cisse came off the bench to score twice in the second half, first tapping in Sammy Aemobi's cross and then finishing off Moussa Sissoko's effort.
Newcastle held on to a satisfying 2-1 home win despite seeing Stephen Taylor sent off for a second bookable offense and a late header from Chelsea striker Didier Droga.
Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho might also be seeing red after his side's first Premier League defeat in 265 days.
The Portuguese maestro has never won a league match at St James' Park during his two spells in charge of the west London club.
Manchester City ticked off a 1-0 victory over Everton to close to within three points of league leaders Chelsea with 15 matches played.
Yaya Toure rammed home a penalty early in the first half after James Milner had been toppled by Phil Jagielka.
There was a bitter note to City's win after the league's top striker Sergio Aguero left the field in a distressed state with a suspected left knee injury.
Elsewhere in the Premier League there were big wins for QPR, who beat Burnley 2-0, and Stoke, who shocked Arsenal 3-2.
Who's invincible in Europe?
Until Saturday's knockout blow at Newcastle, Chelsea had been included in a select band of European sides to make a flawless start to their league campaigns.
German champions Bayern Munich remain unbowed in the Bundesliga, Paris St Germain are unbeaten in Ligue 1 while, in Portugal, FC Porto are yet to be defeated in Primeria Liga.
Bayern hold a seven-point league lead after a 1-0 victory over Bayer Leverkusen.
The manager of second-placed Wolfsburg ruefully commented Saturday: "Bayern are the superior team and they'd need to play with seven men each week for us to have a chance to catch them."
But PSG are the only team who can lay claim to being a true "European Invincible."
The French champions remain unbeaten in all competitions -- including the Champions League - after a 2-1 victory over Nantes, Saturday.
Swedish star striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored twice on his return to the side, helping the Parisians eclipse Marseilles at the top of the table.
