Go bargain hunting on the Friday and Monday after Thanksgiving and it could be the start of a beautiful vacation.
Travel websites, resorts and hotels are once again joining retailers in offering hot deals and discounts during the two days that have become the traditional (and manic) start of the holiday shopping season.
But you don't have to drive to the mall in the middle of the night to get in on the savings.
Just head to your computer this Friday and Monday to snag an affordable trip.
Here are five deals that could send you on a much-needed getaway for less than you thought:
1. Yuupon.com
Yuupon is offering what it bills a "Not A Typo" Black Friday/Cyber Monday Sale, with hourly deals going live from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. on both days.
The flash-deal travel site, which launched in March, promises bargains such as 90% off an airline gift card; $10 a night for a three-star hotel in Scottsdale, Arizona; and 90% off Las Vegas shows.
"Stop rolling your eyes. We're not joking," the company pledges.
You have to register for the site's travel deal alerts at Yuupon.com to receive the secret sale schedule on Thanksgiving and then visit Yuupon.com/BlackFridayTravelDeals on Black Friday and Cyber Monday to book your deals. (Be aware that the site has crashed several times since the sale began and there is a limited supply of deals.)
2. Orbitz.com
Looking for a place to stay for your next vacation? The price may be right if you visit this booking website after Thanksgiving.
Save up to 50% for stays at popular hotels in Orlando, Las Vegas, San Diego, New York, Miami and Hawaii. The company also promises similar savings at international locations, including Paris; Puerto Vallarta and Cancun, Mexico; and London.
"Discounts are likely to slip away faster than the parking spaces at the mall," Orbitz cautions.
To get the deals, visit Orbitz.com/cybersale. The site went live at 12:01 a.m. Friday and closes for business at 11:59 p.m. Monday.
3. Kimpton Hotels
This chain of boutique hotels is offering a Cyber Monday sale at its 12 properties in Washington, Maryland and Virginia.
You can snag a suite for the price of a standard room for stays from December 15 to December 30 -- a savings of up to 60%.
The company is trying to appeal to travelers who are seeking a little space and want to avoid crashing on a pull-out couch while visiting relatives this holiday season.
Here's a sample deal: Get a spa suite at the Hotel Palomar in Washington, which regularly goes for $349 per night, for $149.
The sale began at midnight Sunday and runs until 11:59 p.m. November 30, or until room upgrades run out.
Visit Kimptonhotels.com/cybermonday and enter code "72SALE" on the reservations page to get the deals.
4. Marriott
Craving warm weather and lush tropical surroundings? Get special deals at these select Marriott properties in Florida, the Caribbean, Mexico and Costa Rica when you book your stay on Cyber Monday.
Here's a rundown of some of the offers:
Various Marriott Florida resorts: Save up to 25% for stays from November 29 through January 8. Visit marriott.com/floridacybermonday for details.
Aruba Marriott Resort: Buy two nights and get two nights free. Valid for travel from April 22 to December 21, 2012. Visit arubamarriott.com and enter promotional code D52.
Marriott Hotels & Resorts of Costa Rica: Receive $79-$129 nightly rates -- for a savings of up to 55%. Valid for travel from January 1 to December 20, 2012, but blackout dates apply. Visit marriott.com/costarica and enter promotional code PR5.
San Juan Marriott Resort in Puerto Rico: Get 30% off all reservations. Valid for travel through December 24 and from April 10 to September 30. Visit marriottsanjuan.com and enter promotional code D3Q.
JW Marriott Cancun Resort & Spa in Mexico: Pay $179 per night plus tax and get a $50 resort credit and free room upgrade (subject to availability) -- for a savings of 58%. Valid for travel from February 16 to March 31. Visit jwmarriottcancun.com and enter promotional code D50.
5. The Reefs, Bermuda
And just because it's hard to resist balmy days, swaying palm trees and romantic waterfront settings, here's another deal that may put you closer to an island paradise.
The Reefs Hotel & Club in Southampton, Bermuda, a resort that overlooks a pink sand beach and offers sunset views of the Atlantic Ocean, is holding a Cyber Week sale.
Save 25% off daily rates from March 15 through April 30 and 20% off daily rates from May 1 through July 31. The offer is only valid for stays of four nights or more.
To get the discount, book online from midnight Sunday to 11:59 p.m. December 2. Or call the resort at 800-742-2008 to make your reservations.
