February 12, 2014
A pair of diplomatic meetings leads off today's program, as we cover a state visit at the White House and historic talks in China. We also report on the anniversary of a violent revolution in Iran, and we visit Europe to lend an ear to the world's loudest speaker.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What images, sounds and background information might help an audience understand the significance of a diplomatic meeting?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  state visit
2.  monarchy
3.  decibels
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1.  Who is the current president of France?  What were some of the topics discussed at his meeting in Washington with President Obama?
2.  What word is used in the video to describe the relationship between China and Taiwan?  In what year did Chinese communists force nationalists to flee to Taiwan? Why was this meeting between representatives of China and Taiwan so significant?
3.   According to the video, what is the state of relations between the United States and Iran?  What happened in Iran in 1979 that caused a break in ties with the U.S.?  What does the U.S. say is the purpose of Iran's nuclear program?  How does Iran respond to this charge?
4.  What is measured by decibels?  What is LEAF?  Where is it located?  What is its purpose?  How loud is it?  How are scientists at the facility protected from its potential danger?
Discussion Questions:
1.  What examples of pomp and circumstance might you expect to find at an official state visit?  Why do you think that leaders often treat visiting heads of state this way?
2.  What do you know about the history of the relationship between China and Taiwan?  Why do you think that each claims to be the true government of China?  How do you think that the story of their meeting might have been presented in different media?
3.  How do you think that a government based on a secular constitution might differ from one based on a religion?  What would be a country's basis for law in each case?  How might the leadership of these kinds of governments differ?  Why might it be difficult for these kinds of governments to relate to each other?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
