Brooke Mueller, the ex-wife of actor Charlie Sheen, was arrested early Saturday in Colorado and charged with assault and cocaine possession, police said.
Shortly before midnight Friday, police encountered a woman at the Belly Up -- a bar and performance venue in Aspen -- who said Mueller had been "the aggressor" in an assault, the Colorado city's police department said in a news release.
Mueller was found and arrested after midnight at another bar, Escobar, according to Aspen police. She was charged with possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, which is a felony, and third-degree assault, which is a misdemeanor.
She was released after posting an $11,000 bond, said Aspen police. A court date is scheduled for December 19.
Mueller has appeared as an actress in several movies, including 2004's "A Love Song for Bobby Long," according to IMDb. But she is more widely known as the ex-wife of Sheen, with whom she has twin sons.
The boys and Mueller were part of Sheen's volatile public fall-out with CBS earlier this year as he left his starring role on the network's "Two and Half Men."
She claimed in March that he'd threatened to kill her, saying, "I will cut your head off, put it in a box and send it to your mom," according to a declaration made in a restraining order against Sheen. The revelations led to a court order removing the 2-year-old boys from Sheen's home.
The actor called the allegation "colorful" and described the quote attributed to him as fabricated in an interview with NBC's "Today Show."
Mueller has sought out help for substance abuse and "stress" related issues in the past.
Last December, her attorney Yale Galanter said that she entered a sober living facility. Nine months earlier, in April 2010, Mueller checked into a treatment facility for help with stress management to prevent a "return to old problems," her representative said.
She was in substance abuse rehab earlier in 2010 "to get her health in order," Galanter said at the time.
The couple was involved in an alleged domestic dispute in Aspen on Christmas Day 2009 that resulted in felony charges against Sheen.
