SAN JOSE, California  -- Top-seed Andy Roddick easily defeated Delray Beach winner Kei Nishikori of Japan 6-2 6-4 in the headline match at the ATP tournament in San Jose on Thursday night.
A pumped up Roddick needed little over an hour to dispatch teenager Nishikori.
Roddick needed just 63 minutes to defeat the 18-year-old Japanese who won his first ATP title on Sunday and was on an eight-match winning run.
But American number one Roddick imposed his quality from the start by taking a commanding 3-0 lead and breaking Nishikori's serve before the youngster won a game.
Roddick, who has won twice in San Jose, repeated the break later in a feisty opening set which came to a head in the seventh game.
Roddick barked at the young player as they exchanged shots at the net. Nishikori held his cool, did not respond, and just walked away.
"I didn't understand a word he said," Nishikori said. But when pressed he acknowledged that he did in fact understand what Roddick had shouted at him but just did not want to repeat it before the press.
But Roddick had no trouble repeating what he had said. "I told him to stick me with it the next time. I just let him know that he needs to finish it. I had no problem with it. But it was a monologue."
Roddick duly rounded off the set in the next game and broke Nishikori's service in the fourth game of the second only for his youthful opponent to break straight back.
But as Nishikori served at 4-5 to stay in the tournament he made two crucial errors. He missed an easy slam shot that would have given him the advantage at deuce and then saw his saw his volley go wide that gave Roddick the match.
"I made too many easy mistakes," Nishikori said. "I didn't take advantage of the many chances I had. But overall I was happy with the way I played."
In the early evening match, James Blake, beaten by Nishikori in the Delray Beach final, overcame first-serve problems to beat Jesse Levine 6-4 6-4 to move onto the quarterfinals.
The second-seeded New Yorker, ranked ninth in the world, will face Robby Ginepri in the quarterfinals. "I thought I played well," Blake said. "I felt comfortable and although I had a slow start I was able to put pressure on Jesse."
In afternoon matches, John Isner beat third-seeded German Tommy Haas 4-6 7-6 6-3 to advance to the quarterfinals. Isner, the ATP Tour's second-tallest player at six-foot-nine, will next face Spain's Guillermo Garcia-Lopez.
Haas, ranked 26th in the world, was three match points from winning the second set in a tiebreaker before the 106th-ranked Isner rallied to win.
Fifth-seeded Mardy Fish also advanced, beating Germany's Denis Gremelmayr 6-7 6-3 6-3 to make the quarterfinals for the second week in a row. Fish will face Roddick in the quarterfinals.
Taiwan's Lu Yen-hsun beat American lucky loser Wayne Odesnik 6-4 6-4. Lu will face fourth-seeded Czech Radek Stepanek in the quarterfinals. E-mail to a friend
Copyright 2008 CNN. All rights reserved.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press contributed to this report.
