Her uncle is one of the greatest the game has ever seen, winning 14 majors to date.
Now Cheyenne Woods is embarking on her quest to dominate the world of women's golf just like Tiger did in the men's arena.
The 21-year-old has signed with the same Excel agency that represents Tiger and announced her intention to turn professional after excelling in the amateur ranks.
"I am really looking forward to pursuing my goals and dreams to compete on the highest level," she said in a statement on the PGA Tour's website.
"As I begin my professional career, I am confident and excited about working with Excel as they help shape my future, both personally and professionally."
Woods was schooled at Wake Forest in North Carolina and set the record for lowest career scoring average. She was a two-time All-American and three-time All-Atlantic Coast Conference team member.
Cheyenne is the daughter of Tiger's half-brother Earl Dennison Woods Jr. and can boast 30 victories in amateur tournaments.
Her first professional tournament came in 2009 at the Wegmans LPGA Championship in New York where she missed the cut by four strokes.
Agent Mark Steinberg, who has represented Tiger since 1998, said: "We are excited about the opportunity to represent Cheyenne. She had an outstanding career at Wake Forest and has the chance to be a major star on the women's golf scene."
Tiger won his 14 majors in a ten-year period but has struggled to maintain the heights he reached after he was engulfed in a sex scandal in 2009.
His last major victory came at the U.S. Open in 2008 and though he recently won his first PGA Tour tournament in 30 months he recorded his worst ever finish at the Masters last month, ending on five-over-par.
But at a press conference to promote the upcoming AT&T National tournament, Woods said his game is heading in the right direction.
"I'm going to try and continue to improve in incremental steps in every facet of my game and try to make every facet of my game more efficient," he said.
"I've just played three events -- I won a tournament (four) tournaments ago. If I get more efficient at what I'm doing, then I'm going to win golf tournaments."
His next appearance will come at The Memorial Tournament in Ohio on May 31.
