Both Mainz and Hanover lost their 100% German Bundesliga records on Sunday, with Mainz thrashed 4-2 at home by Schalke and Hanover being held 1-1 at home by Hertha Berlin.
Mainz, who blazed a trail at the top this time last year, won their first two matches of the new campaign -- and looked to be heading for a third straight victory after Andreas Ivanschitz and Colombian midfielder Elkin Soto scored within the opening 12 minutes to give them a 2-0 lead.
But Schalke roared back with four goals in 33 second-half minutes through Dutch striker Klaas-Jan Huntelaar, captain Benedikt Hoewedes, Cameroon midfielder Joel Matip and Austrian defender Christian Fuchs.
The result lifted Schalke up to fourth in the table, while Mainz are eighth, and gave the Gelsenkirchen-based side a further boost following the news that star striker Raul has committed his future to the club.
Meanwhile, midfielder Sergio Pinto put Hanover ahead with a 33rd-minute free-kick, only for teenager Pierre-Michel Lasogga to level matters for Hertha seven minutes from time.
The result sees Hanover second behind surprise leaders Borussia Moenchengladbach on goal difference, with Hertha in 13th place.
However, there is just one point between the top nine clubs following a very open start to the season.
Meanwhile, in France, big-spending Paris Saint-Germain claimed their first success of the season with a 2-1 win over Valenciennes.
With $60m new signing, Javier Pastore, making his debut, PSG took a 39th minute lead through Kevin Gameiro.
However, the visitors equalized on the stroke of half-time when Remi Gomis headed home Renaud Cohade's cross.
But the hosts secured victory just past the hour mark when Nene netted from the penalty spot after David Ducourtioux handled.
But it is Montpellier who lead Ligue One with the only 100% record after three matches, following a thumping 4-0 win over Rennes.
Substitute Souleymane Diawara scored two late goals to secure victory for Montpellier, who lead Toulouse and St Etienne by two points at the top of the table.
