(CNN Student News) -- January 22, 2014
Today's show starts in Russia, where international officials, police and security forces are responding to terrorist threats surrounding the upcoming Olympic Games. We step out into space for the "wake-up call" of a European spacecraft, and we take an early look inside the tallest building in the U.S. We'll also introduce you to a teenager who's making a positive impact in her world.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What kinds of images and sound might a city hosting a major sports event want to make public in advance of the event? Why?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Vladimir Putin
2. Rosetta
3. One World Trade Center
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. When and where will the upcoming Winter Olympics take place? What security challenge might officials there face?
2. According to scientists: Why was the Rosetta satellite put into hibernation two years ago? What happened when scientists tried to "wake" it?
3. What kind of severe weather is affecting much of the northern and eastern U.S.? How has the weather impacted government and businesses? What weather emergency are some people in California facing?
4. Who is McClain Hermes? How is she making a difference in her community?
Discussion Questions:
1. What are Russian authorities doing to address terrorist threats surrounding the Sochi Olympics? Who has threatened to attack the games? What is the U.S. doing to address this possibility? Do you think the threat will impact attendance at the Olympics? Explain. If you were going to the Olympics, would you be concerned? State your rationale.
2. What is the spacecraft Rosetta's mission? What is its cost? What kinds of information do you think scientists will be able to obtain as a result? Do you think that this kind of space exploration is worth pursuing? Why or why not?
3. What are some of the features of the new One World Trade Center? What kinds of businesses do you think might be best suited to this building? Why?
4. f you know of a story of an individual who has taken a personal challenge and turned it into an effort to help others, share that with the class. What can others learn from these stories?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
