Inter Milan secured their fourth straight victory in Italy's top flight Sunday with a 2-0 win over Catania to maintain their pursuit of unbeaten Serie A leaders Juventus.
Boosted by their 1-0 defeat of AC Milan in the city derby last weekend, Inter were always on top in the San Siro after star man Antonio Cassano headed home in the 28th minute.
Rodrigo Palacio added the clinching second with five minutes to go as Diego Milito set up his fellow Argentine to score his first goal for Inter.
Inter coach Andrea Stramaccioni was delighted by their performance, particularly after the break.
"We're a team that's growing. The coach should only try to improve the team match by match," he told the official Inter website.
"Today was a step forward with a spectacular second half. Perhaps it was the first time we were fluid without giving anything away."
They stay in fourth place, four points adrift of Juventus, who maintained their unbeaten start to the season with a 2-0 win over Napoli in a top of the table clash Saturday evening.
Martin Caceres and 19-year-old Paul Pogba scored for Juve, who have opened up a three point lead over their opponents.
Lazio's 3-2 win over struggling Milan has left them in third ahead of Inter on goal difference.
The top four are well clear of fifth placed Fiorentina, who had to settle for a share of the points in the 1-1 draw at Chievo.
French striker Cyril Thereau put the home side ahead in the first half but La Viola leveled only a minute later when Argentine defender Guillermo Rodriguez scored after a corner.
In the English Premier League, fourth placed Everton had Steven Pienaar sent off in the second half at Loftus Road as they were held 1-1 by Queens Park Rangers.
Midfielder Pienaar went for a second yellow card on the hour mark, but his side held on for a draw which leaves them a point ahead of Tottenham Hotspur.
David Moyes' men went behind to a deflected Junior Hoilett strike before Sylvain Distin's header deflected in off QPR goalkeeper Julio Cesar's back for an own goal to level.
Sunday's other game in the EPL saw Sunderland and Newcastle draw 1-1 in the Tyne-Wear derby.
Newcastle took the lead at the Stadium of Light through Yohan Cabaye's early strike, but had Cheick Tiote sent off for violent conduct in the 25th minute.
The home side pressed hard for an equalizer and were rewarded when Demba Ba diverted a John O'Shea header past his own goalkeeper late on.
In the German Bundesliga, Augsburg were held to a goalless draw at Nuremberg, while Hamburg went down to their first defeat since Rafael van der Vaart signed from Tottenham as they lost 1-0 to Stuttgart.
Vedad Ibisevic scored the only goal on 30 minutes.
