(CNN Student News) -- August 30, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• New Orleans, Louisiana • North Korea • Washington, D.C.
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Hi everyone. I'm Carl Azuz and this is CNN Student News. We are commercial free and coming directly to your classroom from the CNN Center in Atlanta. Let's go ahead and get things started right now.
First Up: Katrina - Then and Now
AZUZ: First up, remembering a day five years ago that changed the lives of thousands of Americans: the day that Hurricane Katrina made landfall. Ceremonies and vigils took place all across the U.S. Gulf Coast yesterday. There's been a lot of progress and rebuilding since Katrina hit, but most people agree that there's still a lot that needs doing. During a visit to the Gulf yesterday, President Obama talked about the struggles facing the region.
U.S. PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: I don't have to tell you that there are still too many vacant and overgrown lots. There are still too many students attending classes in trailers. There are still too many people unable to find work. And there are still too many New Orleans folks who haven't been able to come home. So, while an incredible amount of progress has been made, on this fifth anniversary, I wanted to come here and tell the people of this city directly, my administration is going to stand with you and fight alongside you until the job is done.
AZUZ: If you were with us on Friday, you might remember the preview we gave you of "Katrina: Then and Now." It's a special project that compares New Orleans right after Katrina hit with how the city looks five years later. Today, we have the full report for you. Take a look at this.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
LAUREN DIMAGGIO, METAIRIE, LOUISIANA: Everything was gray, just like when you saw after 9/11 where, you know, the streets were all gray. You could not find any greenery. Nobody, no one coming down the street. It was very eerie, very eerie to be just in the silence. That's what I remember, it just being so quiet.
CONRAD WYRE III, HARVEY, LOUISIANA: There's nothing, nothing really changed. I mean, like, you have an overturned car in the middle of the street. Yes, we moved that, but that's it. Like I said, the people are not coming back. You don't see the commerce, and it's like some parts of the city are still like a ghost town. It's just a reality that we have. It's like, hey, this is how we live and this is what we have to deal with.
DIMAGGIO: In the photo with the shrimp boat that is going a little ways into the house, where that boat came from I don't know. But it's at the end of a street close to a levee, which right on the other side is a body of water. So, I don't know where this boat came from, but it certainly didn't belong on the street.
JOYCE BERGMAN, NEW ORLEANS: I took pictures of a church. It was a church, basically, right behind me across the street. It was a two-story church with a huge set of stairs going up to it. And it collapsed sometime during the storm, so it was collapsed when I came back. The whole site has been cleared since, and now just the stairs are there.
DIMAGGIO: I am hoping now that people will realize they have, whatever number it is, how many died in Mississippi, how many died in the Lower Ninth Ward. But really, you'll get to see, you know, it wasn't just that weekend or those few months, it continues. People are still affected by what happened.
(END VIDEO)
Atlantic Hurricanes
AZUZ: Very powerful images there. Well, you science students, budding meteorologists might be interested in our next story today. We're talking about a couple of weather systems. Last Friday, we told you about Tropical Storm Earl. Experts thought it might strengthen into a hurricane. It did. Earl became a category 1 hurricane yesterday. Forecasters think it could increase into a category 3 hurricane. Danielle, the storm that came before it, made it up to a category 4 storm status, although it was back down to a category 1 by Sunday afternoon. Officials still don't think it'll hit the U.S., but Danielle is causing dangerous riptides, or strong currents. More than 200 people had to be rescued Saturday off the coast of Maryland. Authorities said most of them were swimmers who had gotten exhausted from fighting the currents.
Indonesia Volcano
AZUZ: Moving over to Indonesia, where thousands of people are trying to get away from this: It's a volcano, and it erupted over the weekend. That was kind of a surprise, since it hasn't done that in more than 400 years! Around 12,000 people who live in nearby villages were evacuated. This volcano last erupted in the 1600s. Officials say that because it's been inactive for so long, they don't know exactly what to expect. But, emergency response teams are on the scene. The Indonesian government says the situation is under control. Experts don't think there's too much risk of a large, destructive eruption.
Freed American Home
AZUZ: The man stepping off of this airplane is former U.S. President Jimmy Carter; you see him right there. He got back from a trip to North Korea on Friday, and he brought Aijalon Mahli Gomes back home with him. Gomes is a U.S. citizen who was arrested in North Korea back in January for illegally entering the country. Former President Carter went to North Korea on a private, humanitarian mission to try and get Gomes released.
Shoutout
BARBARA BALL, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for the Shoutout! Which of these historic figures spoke at the 1963 March on Washington? Was it: A) Malcom X, B) Medgar Evers, C) Martin Luther King Jr. or D) Rosa Parks? You've got three seconds -- GO! Dr. Martin Luther King Jr's "I Have a Dream" speech was given at the March on Washington. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Rallies in D.C.
AZUZ: You history students are familiar with the speech. It was one of the defining moments of the American Civil Rights Movement. In it, Dr. King talked about his dream of people from different races living together peacefully and being judged by their character rather than their skin color. This past weekend marked the 47th anniversary of the march on Washington. The "Reclaim the Dream" rally commemorated the occasion. It took place this past Saturday in Washington. Thousands of people were there. It started at a local high school and ended on the National Mall, at the site of the future Martin Luther King Jr. National Memorial. That's just a few blocks away from the Lincoln Memorial, and that was where Dr. King gave the "I Have a Dream" speech in 1963. And it's also where another major rally took place on Saturday, the "Restoring Honor" rally. It was organized by conservative commentator Glenn Beck. Some reports estimated that tens of thousands of people gathered for the event. Beck said that the goal of the rally was to reclaim the Civil Rights Movement from politics.
Is This Legit?
SHELBY LIN, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? The U.S. birth rate has gone up every year during the past decade. Not legit! Recently, it's been heading in the opposite direction.
Birth Rate
AZUZ: So, here's an interesting question: Could the recession be connected to a decrease in the U.S. birth rate? At least one expert thinks the recession is the reason why. He says that when people are unsure of their financial future, they tend to put off having kids because, as some parents will tell you, kids are expensive. Now, the theory would seem to match up against this: In 2007, when the economy started to get weaker, there were 14.3 babies born for every 1,000 people. In 2008, the birth rate dropped to 13.9. Last year, it went down to 13.5. That same expert thinks that when the economy comes back, the birth rate will too.
Beef Recall
AZUZ: About 8,500 pounds of ground beef are being recalled because of concerns about E. coli. That's a kind of bacteria that can make you very sick. Three people -- two in Maine, one in New York -- did get sick from E. coli. Officials connected that to certain shipments of ground beef, and that's what led to this recall. Fortunately, none of the three people who got sick needed to go to the hospital.
Promo
AZUZ: Well, Fix Our Schools is a CNN project that takes a look at public education in America and focuses on some of the creative solutions that administrators and teachers and school officials and, yes, students are coming up with to cope, even as schools cope with budget crises nationwide. We're gonna have special coverage on CNN Student News with ideas from students on what works in their school and what could make school better. You won't want to miss it. It will be right here on CNN Student News.
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go today, one last story, we're gonna butter you up. But it looks like we've got plenty to spare. 800 pounds' worth. That is how much butter it takes to create this edible artwork. If you eat straight butter. My aunt eats straight butter. I think it's gross. This butter sculpture is the main attraction at the New York State Fair. It's pretty impressive with all these details. I'd say the butter artists deserve a pat on the back. The butter sculptures have been showcased at the fair for decades.
Goodbye
AZUZ:  They churn out a new one pretty regularly. And yes, we're spreading it on pretty thick. Buy hey, butter you gonna do? For CNN Student News, I'm melting.
