Click here for video
Thursday, August 20, 2009
8:13 PM ET - Gruesome details emerging from Buena Park police in the brutal death of 28 year old Jasmine Fiore. Not only was Fiore stuffed in a suitcase and thrown away in a dumpster, but we learn Fiore's teeth and fingers were removed. Authorities believe the murder suspect, Ryan Jenkins, is armed with a handgun, still on the run, most likely in Canada. (From Stacey Newman, Nancy Grace Producer)
7:24 PM ET - Moments ago Buena Park, California police announced that as of this afternoon an arrest warrant has been issued for Ryan Jenkins in the murder of 28 year old swimsuit model Jasmine Fiore. Jenkins is officially a fugitive. Although Jenkins' black BMW has been located in Washington State, Fiore's white Mercedes is still missing. Authorities do believe Jenkins has crossed the border into Canada and they are now working with Canadian Royal Police to apprehend Jenkins. (From Stacey Newman, Nancy Grace Producer)
6:23 PM ET - Major developments right now! The Orange County DA's office confirms they will file murder charges against reality TV star Ryan Jenkins in the brutal death of swimsuit model Jasmine Fiore. A news conference is set to take place any moment, standby for more details. We will also bring you all the latest developments on the show at 8pm EST for the full hour tonight. (From Stacey Newman, Nancy Grace Producer)
3 PM ET - Is a reality TV star wanted for questioning in the murder of swimsuit model 28 year old Jasmine Fiore on the run? LA cops have been unable to get in touch with Ryan Jenkins since Jenkins reported her missing and cops discovered the gorgeous model dead inside a suitcase dumped inside a Buena Park apartment complex dumpster. The last reported sightings of Jenkins were in San Diego alongside Fiore, before her death and within the last 48 hours near a Washington state marina. Jenkins' car and empty boat trailer discovered at that marina alongside the US-Canadian border. The Buena Park police are set to hold a news conference shortly. (From Stacey Newman, Nancy Grace Producer)
1:41 PM ET - Investigators confirm a reality TV star they want to question in connection with the murder of swimsuit beauty Jasmine Fiore may be heading for the border. A car and empty boat trailer belonging to Ryan Jenkins was discovered at a marina in Washington State, a few miles from the Canadian border. Authorities say Jenkins most likely walked across the border to British Columbia. LAPD wants to question Jenkins as a person of interest in Fiore's death because he was one of the last people to see her, reported her missing hours before the model's body was found, then took off. Jenkins has a criminal domestic violence record and was best known for his appearance on VH1's "Megan Wants a Millionaire". In light of the investigation, VH1 has shut down airing any more new episodes. (From Stacey Newman, Nancy Grace Producer)
Wednesday, August 19, 2009:  7:28 PM ET - Preliminary reports are the swimsuit model found dead in a suitcase inside a Buena Park, California dumpster was strangled. Jasmine Fiore had signs of physical trauma when her body was discovered Saturday morning. The shocking discovery came just hours after her husband, reality TV star, Ryan Jenkins reported Fiore missing. The pair was last spotted in San Diego at a poker game Friday night. And the skeletons are already flying out of the closet for Jenkins. We've just received a criminal report stemming from a 2005 assault case in Calgary, Alberta involving Jenkins and a woman who was not Jasmine Fiore. (From Stacey Newman, Nancy Grace Producer)
5:36 PM ET - A reality TV star is making headlines at this hour for something other than appearing on the airwaves on VH1's "Megan Wants a Millionaire." Police want to question 32 year old Ryan Jenkins in connection with the brutal death of a young, gorgeous swimsuit model. 28 year old Jasmine Fiore vanished after a poker tournament in San Diego. Fiore was allegedly there with Jenkins and reports are the two were husband and wife, secretly married in Las Vegas. Police confirm Jenkins was the one who reported Fiore missing Saturday night, just hours after her body was discovered in a bloody suitcase, thrown away like trash at a Buena Park apartment complex dumpster...but then Jenkins went missing. There are two vehicles of interest in the search for Jenkins...Fiore's white 2007 Mercedes CL S550 and Jenkins' black BMW X5. Police say Jenkins could be behind the wheel of either car. (From Stacey Newman, Nancy Grace Producer)
