Michael Jackson's family will not hold a public or private viewing of his body at the Neverland Ranch, a spokesman for the family said Wednesday.
Graumann's Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles is the scene of a makeshift Michael Jackson memorial Wednesday.
"Plans are under way regarding a public memorial for Michael Jackson, and we will announce those plans shortly," Ken Sunshine said in a written statement.
Jackson's will, which was filed in court Wednesday and dated July 7, 2002, did not specify where he wished to be buried.
Jackson placed his entire estate, which he estimated to be worth at least $500 million, in the Michael Jackson Family Trust, which was described in another document not filed in court.
Sunshine's statement also said the Jackson family had just hired his public relations firm.
Confusion and speculation spread in recent days over where and when a memorial service for Jackson might be held.
Planning had been under way for a motorcade to carry Jackson's body from Los Angeles to the Neverland Ranch in Santa Barbara County, California, which state and local officials suggested would be difficult and costly.
A public viewing at Neverland Ranch on Friday had also been under consideration, law enforcement sources said.
The mother of Jackson's two oldest children was left out of Jackson's will.
"I have intentionally omitted to provide for my former wife, Deborah Rowe Jackson," the will said.
The pop star died Thursday at age 50. While it will be up to a court to decide who gets custody of Jackson's three children, the singer chose his mother, Katherine Jackson, as their guardian. If Katherine Jackson, 79, is not living, Jackson said, "I nominate Diana Ross as guardian."
The children -- ages 7, 11 and 12 -- have been placed under his mother's temporary guardianship.
Jackson attorney John Branca, attorney Barry Siegel and John McClain, a music industry executive and longtime Jackson friend, were named as executors of the will.  Watch as the details of the will are revealed »
Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Mitchell Beckloff held an emergency hearing Wednesday morning to consider a request to immediately turn over control of the estate to Branca and McClain.
Beckloff decided there was no urgency to replace Katherine Jackson, whom he appointed temporary administrator this week. Another hearing has been set for next Monday.
Branca and McClain issued a joint statement Wednesday: "The most important element of Michael's will is his unwavering desire that his mother, Katherine, become the legal guardian for his three children. As we work to carry out Michael's instructions to safeguard both the future of his children as well as the remarkable legacy he left us as an artist we ask that all matters involving his estate be handled with the dignity and the respect that Michael and his family deserve."
The question of what killed Jackson last week has gone unanswered pending toxicology results. Fans across the globe Tuesday continued to mourn Jackson five days after the 50-year-old singer went into cardiac arrest.
The Drug Enforcement Administration has joined the investigation into whether prescription drugs were involved in the death of singer Michael Jackson, a source told CNN. The source, who did not want to be identified because he cannot comment publicly on the matter, said DEA agents will be looking at various doctors involved with Jackson, their practices and their possible sources of medicine supply.
In New York, thousands lined the streets Tuesday outside Harlem's Apollo Theater, the hall that helped launch Jackson's career.
At 9, the singer won a 1967 Apollo amateur night showcase with his brothers.
"We left our house at 4 o'clock in the morning and got here at 9, and we were lucky to get here," said Angela Staples, who came from Pennsylvania with daughter Jasmine.
For many of Jackson's fans, the cause of his death bore less significance than remembering his life.
On Wednesday, the top nine positions on Billboard magazine's top pop catalog albums chart housed Jackson-related titles.  Watch how singer's death has spurred sales »
Jackson's hometown of Gary, Indiana, angled to have its favorite son buried there and planned a massive memorial service at a local ballpark in July.
Gary Mayor Rudy Clay told a Chicago, Illinois, radio station Tuesday that he has been in contact with the Jackson family about the burial.
A burial site could be near a proposed Jackson family museum and a performing arts center, said mayoral spokeswoman Lalosa Burns, who said Clay hadn't received any confirmation.
Clay told WGN that he expects Jackson's body, at the least, will be taken to Gary for a July 10 memorial service at U.S. Steel Works ballpark.
Jackson's father, Joe, has said Neverland Ranch has been ruled out as a burial site, but the family has given no public indication of where the singer's final resting place may be.
Michael Jackson purchased Neverland Ranch -- named for the fictional world in J.M. Barrie's "Peter Pan" -- in 1987 and filled it with animals and amusement rides.
Tom Barrack Jr., the billionaire who engineered Jackson's financial rescue last year and gained control of the ranch through his company, said the property's future will be discussed later.
CNN's Alan Duke, Saeed Ahmed, Kara Finnstrom, Don Lemon, Stephanie Smith and Aspen Steib contributed to this report.
