The lawyer for a U.S. man being held in Aruba in connection with the case of a missing American woman urged authorities on Sunday to release his client.
Gary Giordano, 50, was arrested by Aruban police on August 5, three days after Robyn Gardner, 35, was last seen near Baby Beach on the western tip of the Caribbean island.
"Today, 9 days later, 4 voluntary interviews, 2 site visits, and more than 30 statements coming from different sources including witnesses and professionals, we can not deduce that there is hard proof to sustain a demand by the public prosecutor against our client," Giordano's attorney, Michael Lopez, said in a written statement.
According to Aruban prosecutors, the missing woman and the suspect arrived on the island July 31 from the United States.
Authorities search phosphate mines on Aruba
Lopez said last week that his client came to Aruba on vacation with a female friend he had met on a dating site and has known for years.
Giordano told authorities that he had been snorkeling with Gardner when he signaled to her to swim back, according to a statement from the prosecutor's office. When he reached the beach, Gardner was nowhere to be found, he allegedly said.
Lopez denied statements by prosecutors that his client is no longer cooperating with authorities in the investigation.
The attorney said in his statement Sunday that Giordano, whom he identified by his initials, GG, has given "all possible cooperation."
"The client has his own business and family in the United States. He has no reason whatsoever to obstruct any investigation," Lopez said.
He added that his client could be returned to Aruba "in case any legal proof shows up."
This weekend, authorities said that crews searching for the missing woman have looked in Aruban phosphate mines.
Gardner's boyfriend speaks to HLN's Dr. Drew
Articles of clothing were found Friday in one mine, but authorities had not determined whether they are related to the disappearance of Gardner, Aruban Solicitor General Taco Stein told CNN.
FBI agents on Friday searched Giordano's Gaithersburg, Maryland, home, Special Agent Rich Wolf told CNN.
Agents, wearing vests that said FBI and carrying empty cardboard and plastic boxes, arrived around 8:40 p.m. Friday. About 15 unmarked cars could be seen on the street, as well as a Montgomery County police vehicle.
Stein said Friday that the suspect will appear in court Monday, where an investigating magistrate could order him held for at least eight more days, order him to remain on the island or release him outright due to a lack of evidence.
Although officials have stopped actively searching for Gardner, they are continuing to seek evidence in the case.
"In anticipation of any possible reason of prolongation of the client's detention, we can state that no felony has been committed by him," Lopez said in his Sunday statement. "The Department of Justice at this time does not have any basis to request prolongation of his detention."
