(CNN)  -- Juventus missed the chance to go top of Serie A as they were held to a last-gasp 1-1 draw by Bologna on Sunday.
David Trezeguet celebrates his goal but Juventus were eventually held to a 1-1 draw by Bologna.
An equalizer by Brazilian Adailton in injury time earned the visitors a late point after David Trezegeut had given Juve a 25th-minute lead.
The French striker profited after Jonathon Zebina's charge into the box which saw his shot come back off Bologna goalkeeper Emiliano Viviano and fall into his path.
Diego then set up Trezeguet for a chance which flew just wide.
Juve had been on top in the first half but after the break home keeper Gianluigi Buffon was called into action on several occasions.
He saved a Giacomo Tedesco shot and Adailton put the rebound over the bar, but three minutes into added time saw Tedesco send a high cross into the box and Adailton volleyed home.
"It's a missed opportunity," Juve coach Ciro Ferrara told reporters.
"We have been naive."
"When they equalized we had no-one defending, we have given them too much freedom. "We tried to attack in order to kill the game and that gave them a chance to hit back."
Sampdoria head Juventus by one point with 15 points from six games after their 1-0 win over champions Inter Milan on Saturday.
Inter are on 13 points with Fiorentina, who beat Livorno 1-0 in Saturday's late game.
In other action on Sunday, AC Milan continued their disappointing start to the season with a 0-0 home draw against Bari.
Out of sorts Brazilian ace Ronaldinho missed their best chance when he blazed a first half rebound over the bar.
The draw left them in 11th place, seven points adrift of Sampdoria.
AS Roma needed an injury-time equalizer from Daniele De Rossi to earn a 1-1 draw away to Catania.
Takayuki Morimoto gave the home side the lead in the 22nd minute, with Italian international De Rossi leveling in a goalmouth scramble.
Serie A's top scorer Antonio Di Natale continued his fine run as he converted in Udinese's 2-0 win over Genoa while Atalanta are off the bottom with a 1-1 draw at Chievo.
