New York City police on Wednesday evening were searching the New Jersey home of Pedro Hernandez, who is accusing of killing Etan Patz more than three decades ago, NYPD Deputy Commissioner Paul Browne said.
Police executed a search warrant as part of an ongoing investigation into Etan, the boy who disappeared on May 25, 1979, in New York.
Meanwhile, Hernandez's wife said her husband's confession to police is coming from a man with mental illness, her lawyer said Wednesday.
Rosemary Hernandez "feels strongly that the confession is unreliable," attorney Robert Gottlieb said.
Pedro Hernandez is charged with the second degree murder of the 6-year-old boy, who disappeared on his way to a New York school bus stop more than 33 years ago.
The suspect, who is being held without bond at New York's Bellevue Hospital, is receiving a medication called olanzapine, according to a source familiar with his medical history. The drug is used to treat symptoms of schizophrenia, according to the National Institutes of Health.
He is scheduled to undergo a court-ordered psychiatric evaluation to determine whether he's competent to stand trial, said his lawyer, Harvey Fishbein.
Hernandez admitted choking the boy after luring him into the basement of a bodega, a small grocery store, police said. He allegedly told authorities he threw away the boy's body in a garbage bag. Etan's remains have not been found.
His lawyer previously told a judge that Hernandez has a history of mental disorders, suffers from hallucinations and is bipolar.
"Mrs. Hernandez has seen her husband's delusions and hallucinations and other mental illnesses for a very long period of time," Gottlieb said.
Rosemary Hernandez's lawyer would not elaborate on the mental disorders nor would he provide an example of what his client observed.
"She does not believe the confession at all," Gottlieb said.
Gottlieb said he was asked to represent the wife because of her growing frustration over the case and her desire to make sure prosecutors "understand the severity and nature of the mental illnesses."
A spokesman for the district attorney's office had no comment Wednesday.
Pedro Hernandez's next court appearance is scheduled for June 25.
