Brooke Mueller, the ex-wife of actor Charlie Sheen, will undergo drug rehab at home while caring for her young twins, her spokesman said Monday.
Mueller was arrested in Aspen, Colorado, on December 3 and charged with assault and cocaine possession, police said.
"Recognizing past attempts at treatment have not been successful, Brooke has decided to take a different approach to deal with her addiction," spokesman Steve Honig said.
Mueller will take part in a rehab program during the day, but she will be "under expert supervision 24 hours a day, seven days a week," Honig said. "In addition, Brooke has requested to be tested on a daily basis for cocaine and other illegal substances so there is no doubt as to her commitment."
The 2-year-old sons she shares with Sheen will stay in Mueller's custody and will "be cared for by Brooke and their longtime nanny," Honig said. "Charlie and Brooke's family are all fully supportive of this decision and recognize the importance of maintaining the children's normal routine."
The incidents in Aspen began when a woman at the Belly Up -- a bar and performance venue there -- complained that Mueller had been "the aggressor" in an assault, Aspen police said.
Mueller was found and arrested after midnight at another bar, Escobar, police said. She was charged with possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, which is a felony, and third-degree assault, which is a misdemeanor.
She was released after posting an $11,000 bond, Aspen police said. A court date is scheduled for December 19.
Mueller has appeared as an actress in several movies, including 2004's "A Love Song for Bobby Long," according to IMDb. But she is more widely known as the ex-wife of Sheen, with whom she has twin sons.
The boys and Mueller were part of Sheen's volatile public fall-out with CBS earlier this year as he left his starring role on the network's "Two and Half Men."
She claimed in March that he'd threatened to kill her, saying, "I will cut your head off, put it in a box and send it to your mom," according to a declaration made in a restraining order against Sheen. The revelations led to a court order removing the 2-year-old boys from Sheen's home.
The actor called the allegation "colorful" and described the quote attributed to him as fabricated in an interview with NBC's "Today Show."
Mueller has sought help for substance abuse and stress-related issues in the past.
Last December, her attorney, Yale Galanter, said that she entered a sober living facility. Earlier, in April 2010, Mueller had checked into a treatment facility for help with stress management to prevent a "return to old problems," her representative said.
She was in substance abuse rehab earlier in 2010 "to get her health in order," Galanter said at the time.
The couple was involved in an alleged domestic dispute in Aspen on Christmas Day 2009 that resulted in felony charges against Sheen.
CNN's Jack Hannah contributed to this report.
