Chelsea remain top of the English Premier League, despite suffering a shock 2-1 defeat at Everton on a Wednesday night filled with high drama.
Louis Saha scored twice for Everton, and the French striker also missed a penalty, as David Moyes' side claimed some compensation for their defeat by the London side in last summer's FA Cup final.
Chelsea took a 16th-minute lead when Florent Malouda ran onto Didier Drogba's flick to fire past goalkeeper Tim Howard.
But Everton levelled 17 minutes later when Saha gave marker John Terry the slip before heading home Landon Donovan's corner.
Saha then had a great chance to give Everton the lead on the stroke of half-time after Donovan was fouled by Ricardo Carvalho in the area.
However, his spot-kick lacked power and direction and was comfortably saved by goalkeeper Petr Cech.
But Saha was eventually to win the game fror Everton with Terry again at fault. The former England captain failed to deal with a long cross-field ball, allowing Saha to control the pass in an instant before striking home a 75th minute winner.
Manchester United would have gone top of the table with a win at Aston Villa, but the defending champions drew 1-1 after playing most of the match with 10 men following the dismissal of Portuguese winger Nani.
In a dress rehearsal for the League Cup final later this month, Carlos Cuellar headed home Stewart Downing's cross to give Villa a 19th-minute lead.
But United levelled soon after when Ryan Giggs' pull-back was put through his own net by defender James Collins.
Nani was then sent off for a 28th-minute two-footed lunge on Stilyan Petrov, incurring a three-match ban which will see him miss the Wembley showpiece.
United held on for a battling draw with a superb second-half rearguard performance, and the result means they like just a point behind Chelsea with 12 matches still remaining.
Arsenal remain third in the table, but are now just six points behind Chelsea and five behind United, are a hard-fought 1-0 home win over fourth-paced Liverpool.
Abou Diaby headed home Tomas Rosicky's cross with 18 minutes remaining, to end a barren run for the Gunners after successive defeats against both Chelsea and Manchester United.
Tottenham's Champions League hopes took a a severe knock after they were beaten 1-0 at struggling Wolves -- who have now beaten the London side both home and away.
David Jones side-footed home a Matt Jarvis cross to give Wolves a vital three points that moves them out of the relegation zone.
Meanwhile, Hull lie just one place above the drop zone after they were beaten 1-0 at Blackburn.
The home side scored the only goal in the 16th minute when goalkeeper Boaz Myhill diverted Martin Olsson's cross into his own net. The visitors ended the match with 10 men after George Boateng was sent off for an elbow on Morten Gamst Pedersen.
West Ham also moved out of the drop zone with a superb 2-0 home win over in-form Birmingham.
A superb Alessandro Diamanti free-kick and a second from Carlton Cole proved enough for the Hammers, giving new owners David Sullivan and David Gold victory against the club they used to own.
