The 2014 Golden Globes are in the books, and prognosticators will have plenty to work with as they try to predict the Oscar winners -- and, for that matter, the future of "Brooklyn Nine-Nine."
Relive the Golden Globes' most fascinating moments on our blog
1. Tina and Amy dazzled again.
Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, who earned praise for their hosting of last year's Golden Globes, started off this year's edition where they left off: rattling off zinger after zinger.
George Clooney? He "would rather float into space and die rather than spend another minute with a woman close to his own age." Meryl Streep? Her success proves there are still great roles for "Meryl Streeps over 60." Actresses having to appeal to impossible physical standards? Matthew McConaughey lost 45 pounds for "Dallas Buyers Club," or "what actresses call 'being in a movie.' "
The only downside of their hosting was there was much less of it than there could have been. Though the two popped up from time to time, after the opening segments they were primarily off stage (until Poehler won best actress in a TV comedy or musical series, anyway).
Golden Globes: GIFs and best moments
2. We have our Oscar front-runners.
"12 Years a Slave" won best motion picture drama. "American Hustle" won best motion picture comedy or musical. "Gravity" won best director for Alfonso Cuaron. The rest of the possibilities -- "Inside Llewyn Davis," "Captain Phillips," "Dallas Buyers Club," "Nebraska" -- may get nominated for best picture, but they're even longer shots for the big prize than they were before the Globes.
And best actress will likely boil down to a face-off between Cate Blanchett ("Blue Jasmine"), who won best actress in a drama, and Amy Adams ("American Hustle") who took home the same prize for musical or comedy.
Keep up to date with the winners using our Awards Tracker
3. On the other hand, Matthew McConaughey? And "Brooklyn Nine-Nine"?
Though McConaughey has gotten terrific reviews for his performance in "Dallas Buyers Club," he was seen as a dark horse behind Chiwetel Ejiofor ("12 Years") and Robert Redford ("All is Lost"), not to mention perennial favorite Tom Hanks ("Captain Phillips"). But the Texas-born actor, who has given his acting career new life with such films as "Magic Mike," "Mud" and a small but pivotal performance in "The Wolf of Wall Street," has put himself in the forefront of the best actor conversation. All right, all right, all right!
And on the TV side, "Brooklyn Nine-Nine," which has suffered from middling ratings, may have gotten new life itself with its Globe wins as best TV series comedy or musical and for star Andy Samberg.
E! apologies for Michael J. Fox 'Fun Fact' during Golden Globes
4. It's a long walk to the winner's circle.
Some stars took what seemed like ages to get to the stage to accept their trophies. They have to push past well-wishers -- bussing a few of them, naturally -- and wind their way through the Beverly Hilton's many full tables. Perhaps next year the Hollywood Foreign Press Association can invest in a few Segways.
Ronan Farrow disses estranged dad Woody Allen's Golden Globes tribute
5. Red is the color.
The red carpet was reflected in the gowns of many of the actresses.
"12 Years' " Lupita Nyong'o wore a dazzling cape-like gown; Taylor Swift's dress featured a maroon skirt; Drew Barrymore's flowy dress will filled with reddish flowers. Other performers wore other colors -- there were plenty of whites, blacks and even a yellow or two -- but the reds stood out.
Quick-read list of the winners
Check out all of our special coverage of Awards Season 2014
