A man charged with stalking sports reporter Erin Andrews is now accused of making nude videotapes of her in one more city than previously thought, according to court documents filed Wednesday.
Michael David Barrett, 48, is accused of surreptitiously videotaping the ESPN reporter through hotel peepholes and posting the videos online.
Authorities previously had said they believed most of the videos were made at a Nashville, Tennessee, hotel in September 2008. But the information filed Wednesday alleges that Barrett also taped Andrews through an altered peephole in a hotel room in Columbus, Ohio, in February 2008. Barrett stayed in the hotel room next door to Andrews, the information said.
He is charged with interstate stalking, which carries a potential sentence of five years in prison, said Thom Mrozek, spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office in the Central District of California.
Barrett was arrested in Illinois, but will make an initial appearance in federal court in Los Angeles on Friday, Mrozek said. He is scheduled to be arraigned on November 23 and will be asked to enter a plea.
An Illinois judge last month released Barrett on bail.
Barrett waived his right to be indicted by a grand jury, Mrozek said, and authorities on Wednesday filed a criminal information against him in place of an indictment.
Investigators found that Barrett reserved a room at a Milwaukee, Wisconsin, hotel where Andrews was staying in July 2008, but did not check in, according to prosecutors and the initial criminal complaint against him last month.
The complaint accused him of making seven videos from the surreptitious tapes.
In Nashville, the door peephole into Andrews' room was altered with a hacksaw, and the peephole to her room in Milwaukee was altered in a similar way, the criminal complaint said. Authorities believe the videos were taken with a cell phone camera.
In addition, the complaint said that Barrett "traveled from Illinois to Victim Andrews' home state" in August 2008, but did not specify which state.
Barrett allegedly attempted to sell the videos to celebrity gossip site TMZ in January 2009. TMZ did not purchase the images, but employees of the Web site assisted in the investigation by providing information to Andrews' attorneys, authorities said. However, the videos were posted to other Web sites by Barrett, the criminal complaint said, with labels like "Sexy and hot blonde sports celebrity shows us her all."
Andrews, 31, is a sideline reporter for ESPN, traveling around the country covering college football games. The criminal complaint said she became aware of the videos in July and that their posting has caused her distress, anxiety and trouble sleeping.
