The Caribbean's tropical weather, beautiful beaches and clear blue waters attract travelers seeking a place to kick back and relax.
Add a cocktail and you have a true recipe for repose. Try these five drinking establishments with very different vibes:
Go bananas at Bananas
A husband and wife team quit their jobs in Philadelphia and sold virtually everything they owned to open a tropical bar and guesthouse in Puerto Rico.
"It was one of the smartest things we ever did," said Glenn Curry, owner of Bananas Guesthouse, Beach Bar & Grill in Vieques, Puerto Rico.
The 63-year-old former journalist and his wife, Wynne, a mortgage representative, bought Bananas in 2002 and enjoy their lives hosting locals and guests from around the world at their remote tropical corner of the world.
Since Vieques can only be reached by boat or plane, their establishment caters to a more adventurous crowd, Curry said. Vieques is an island municipality of Puerto Rico that lies 8 miles east of the mainland.
"Vieques is special because it is not very developed and contains unspoiled land and pristine beaches, which is attractive to many tourists," he said.
Bananas has views of the Caribbean Sea and is a short distance from Sun Bay, a large public beach. The bar specializes in frozen drinks like piña coladas and dirty bananas.
"The atmosphere in our establishment is very relaxed," said Curry. "The clock in our bar landed on happy hour and it never gains a minute," he said with a chuckle.
Jamaican tropical oasis
The owner of Floyde's Pelican Bar in Jamaica said he doesn't keep regular hours and works on the honor system.
"If you pass by and I'm not in, then take a beer and leave cash," said Floyde Forbes.
This remote bar can only be accessed by boat and is about six-tenths of a mile from Treasure Beach on the southern coast of Jamaica. It was built with driftwood and coconut trees.
This tropical oasis, which specializes in fresh seafood and Red Stripe beer, was named after the large flock of pelicans that rest on a sandbar nearby.
Forbes said the atmosphere at Floyde's is "calm and serene with a very accepting international flavor that doesn't compare to anything else."
The original bar was built in 2001, but in 2004 Hurricane Ivan destroyed it. Local residents helped rebuild.
Drink to infinity at the Infiniti Bar
You may feel like a movie star at this hot spot.
Jane Fonda, Cindy Crawford and Shaquille O'Neal are among the many celebrities who have spent time relaxing at the glamorous Infiniti Bar in Turks and Caicos.
The Infiniti Bar is the marquee attraction at the upscale Grace Bay Club resort and is the Caribbean's longest bar at 90 feet, according to the resort. It is surrounded by a white sand beach and lush vegetation and attracts its largest crowds at sunset.
The "longest bar in the Caribbean" is the pride and joy of internationally renowned designer Keith Hobbs. His creation has been celebrated by guests, travel magazines and other publications since its opening in 2007.
During your visit, be sure to order the bar's signature drink, the Infiniti Martini.
Still standing after multiple hurricanes
Music lovers will be drawn to The Dune Preserve.
Since 1994, reggae singer and songwriter Bankie Banx has owned the beach bar along Rendezvous Bay in Anguilla.
Banx often performs at his bar, and he has attracted big name performers over the years, such as Jimmy Buffet and John Mayer. Former U.S. President Bill Clinton has visited, too.
"Banx formed the Moonsplash Music Festival back in 1991 and it has become one of the premier music festivals in the Caribbean," said his manager, Olaide Banks. The event will be March 8 to 11 this year on the grounds of The Dune Preserve.
In addition to live music, the beach bar is known for its signature "Duneshine," a fermented ginger cocktail.
"The two-acre complex has changed quite a bit since 1994 due to four major hurricanes, but the charm lives on," Banks said.
The Dune Preserve is primarily built from driftwood, pieces of shipwrecked boats and harvested wood from Dominica and Guyana.
Pack a swimsuit at Rick's
You'll dive into more than just a drink at Rick's Cafe in Jamaica.
Since 1974, countless guests have jumped into the waters off this 45-foot cliffside bar in Negril, so be sure to pack a swimsuit and a sense of adventure. Boaters like to pull their vessels up to this seaside establishment, too.
Aside from aquatic adventure, this drinking spot is known for its sunset views of the Caribbean over the naturally formed cliffs. Bring your camera!
"From the minute we entered Rick's it was evident that it was one of the most beautiful spots that we had seen in Jamaica, if not the world," said Sonya Matalon of Columbus, Ohio. "I felt like I was standing in a picture postcard with an absolutely amazing view."
Rick's takes pride in calling itself "the premier gathering spot" in Negril and has maintained much of its original seaside ambiance despite damage from Hurricanes Gilbert and Ivan.
