(CNN Student News) -- February 3, 2014
Science and politics headline this February 3 edition of CNN Student News: A volcano erupts in Indonesia, and an election hits snags in Thailand. We also begin Black History Month by looking at some memorable quotes from African-American leaders. And we report on an armless football player who'll stop at nothing to succeed.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were producing a program on Black History Month, what people and events would you include, and why?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Ring of Fire
2. Bangkok, Thailand
3. democracy
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Where is Mount Sinabung located? What happened there on Saturday?
2. Why are the Thai voters outside the polling station angry? What did they eventually do? How did authorities respond? Why were some voters boycotting the election? How has Thailand's prime minister responded to their charges?
3. Who is Isaac Lufkin? What sport and position does he play? How would you describe his personality? According to Isaac's coach, what does he do for his team?
Discussion Questions:
1. Based on what you saw in the video, how would you describe the political situation in Bangkok, Thailand? What do you think the voter in the video means when she says, "One man, one vote"? How do you think that a member of the opposition might respond? Have you heard this phrase used anywhere else? Explain.
2. Do you find any of the historic quotes from famous African-Americans especially relevant today? Explain. Who do you think are some of the most inspirational figures in Black History? What have you learned from each of their stories?
3. When asked about what his impact on his teammates, Isaac says, "Now they can't be lazy." What do you think he means? Do you find that you are inspired to do more when you see others who don't let adversity get in their way? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
