(RollingStone.com) -- Fans wandering through the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival this weekend will encounter an ambitious array of audiovisual installations created by bands including Arcade Fire, Animal Collective and Interpol.
It's all part of Coachella's new partnership with the Creators Project, a program set up by Intel and Vice to connect artists with cutting-edge technology.
RollingStone.com: Choose the cover of Rolling Stone, round two: Vote by April 14!
The resulting collaborations will be visible all around the Coachella grounds -- right up to the main stage itself, which London's United Visual Artists are building into a three-dimensional lighting sculpture that will move and unfold over the course of the festival.
During Animal Collective's Saturday night set, this will be supplemented by a "psychedelic jumbletron," otherwise known as a live collage of footage from the performance (created with help from Animal Collective's avant-garde pals Black Dice).
Elsewhere on the site, attendees can drop by "Untitled (A physical manifestation of 'Ladies and Gentlemen we are Floating In Space')" -- a cathedral-inspired structure filled with deconstructed portions of Spiritualized's 1997 signature song produced in collaboration with director Jonathan Glazer -- or visit the dance-oriented Sahara Tent for a dazzling light show designed by Brazilian artist Muti Randolph.
RollingStone.com: Random notes
Details on two further surprises Creators Project has planned for the Coachella main stage remain strictly under wraps for now: Arcade Fire reunited with director Chris Milk, who helmed their interactive video "The Wilderness Downtown" last year, for a mysterious collaboration called "Summer into Dust," and Interpol is planning a top-secret work titled "Under Surveillance."
Adds Deborah Conrad, Intel's vice president and chief marketing officer, "There's an X factor when you have art and technology coming together. This is new territory for all of us -- that's what makes it incredibly fun."
See the original article at RollingStone.com.
Copyright © 2011 Rolling Stone.
