Inter Milan celebrated their fourth successive Scudetto with a 3-0 home victory against Siena on Sunday as coach Jose Mourinho demanded total commitment from his players.
Coach Mourinho demanded total commitment from Inter as they celebrated another Italian title.
Inter were crowned champions on Saturday after closest challengers and city rivals AC Milan went down 2-1 at Udinese.
Any thoughts they would take their foot off the gas were dispelled as goals from Esteban Cambiasso (45), Mario Balotelli (52) and Zlatan Ibrahimovic (76) secured the win.
"It was important to win, there wouldn't have been much point to our party if we hadn't won," said Mourinho. "This was a serious match, we weren't kidding around. Our strength is that we always play very seriously.
"Even today I got angry because we still had the aim of winning the top scorer trophy, not for (Zlatan) Ibrahimovic but for the whole team -- even (Mario) Balotelli had to play for Ibra."
The Swede scored his 22nd league goal of the season in the 76th minute and is only one goal behind Bologna's Marco Di Vaio in the Serie A goalscoring charts.
But it was captain Javier Zanetti and goalkeeper Julio Cesar who pleased Mourinho the most.
"The player who surprised me the most was Zanetti. His passport cannot be telling the truth (claiming he's 35), it must be 10 years out, he's incredible," added the former Porto and Chelsea manager.
Mourinho has already started looking ahead to the quest for a fifth successive Serie A crown and already has transfer targets in mind, such as Genoa's Diego Milito.
"If you win one, a second and then more titles it's difficult and a fifth will be harder still," he said. "We are not very far from signing Milito, who is a striker in top form.
"We need a second striker. This year we had big problems in central midfield and we need two players there with physical strength and a different tactical ability to the players we have at the moment.
"And then a defender other than two or three in the youth team that I like a lot."
Milan's hold on second place was strengthened as Juventus could only manage a 2-2 home draw with Atalanta with Fiorentina a point back in fourth after they beat Sampdoria 1-0.
Genoa came from behind to secure the point they needed to qualify for the Europa League next season thanks to a 2-2 draw with Chievo.
Roma hold the last European spot, but are just two points ahead of Palermo after the Sicilians beat Lazio 2-0.
Meanwhile, veteran Inter midfielder Luis Figo has announced that he will retire at the end of the season. "I finish in the best possible way," Figo told Portuguese sports newspaper Abola. "I will no longer play at a high level."
Figo, 36, won four Primera Liga title in spells with Barcelona and Real Madrid before joining Inter in the summer of 2005.
"This is a first for me," he added. "I've never won a title without playing. It's always difficult to win a league title in Italy. But with respect to the previous Serie A titles, this one feels different because it has been slightly more difficult."
