There was so much -- so! much! -- to love about Sunday night's Golden Globe awards.
To begin with, Amy Poehler finally won something (much to her astonishment), and she did it while killing her hosting job with Tina Fey.
Over on our Golden Globes live blog, we asked those watching with us how Fey and Poehler were doing, and 81% voted they were doing A-OK, with roughly half that saying the duo were even better than last year.
That's great news for the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, since they've already booked Fey and Poehler for a third round of Globes.
The comedic team were just as sharp as they were last year, although we're curious who you think had the best one-liners. These were some of our favorite jokes of the night:
Tina Fey, introducing "Gravity" during the opening monologue: " 'Gravity' is nominated for best film. It's the story of how George Clooney would rather float away into space and die than spend one more minute with a woman his own age."
Amy Poehler, calling out Netflix for breaking through with its original shows: "Enjoy it while it lasts, Netflix. You're not going to be feeling so smug in a couple of years when SnapChat is up here accepting best drama."
Tina Fey, on Meryl Streep: "(She's) so brilliant in 'August: Osage County,' proving that there are still great roles in Hollywood for Meryl Streeps over 60."
Amy Poehler introducing one of Showtime's new hit shows: " 'Masters of Sex,' which is the degree I got from Boston College."
When Tina and Amy accused Julia Louis-Dreyfus of becoming a diva: "Interestingly, Julia has chosen to sit in the film section tonight. Hi, Julia. Hi, Julia ... you know us from TV."
Amy Poehler as Tina Fey's "adult son from a previous relationship" (who sadly didn't know his dad):
Amy Poehler's heartwarming acceptance speech:
Tina Fey, introducing Leonardo DiCaprio: "Like a supermodel's vagina, let's all give a warm welcome to Leonardo DiCaprio."
Those were some of the jokes that caused us to laugh the hardest. What about you?
