Top seed Novak Djokovic began the defense of his Wimbledon title with an emphatic Centre Court victory over Spain's Juan Carlos Ferrero on day one of the championships.
The 25-year-old, playing for the first time since his defeat to Rafael Nadal in the French Open final earlier this month, recovered from a rusty start to cruise through 6-3 6-3 6-1.
The Serbian world number one had opted to take a break following his defeat to Nadal at Roland Garros, rather than playing in Wimbledon warmup tournaments.
Third seed Roger Federer looked in imperious form in his first round match against Spain's Albert Ramos.
The six-time champion powered though 6-1 6-1 6-1 to make it a tough All England Club debut for world number 43 Ramos.
Venus crashes out in first round of women's singles
Federer, without a grand glam title since the 2010 Australian Open, is bidding to equal Pete Sampras's record of seven Wimbledon titles.
"I played a good match against a guy who doesn't have much experience on grass courts," he said following the win.
"I could save energy and it gives you confidence when you close out a match that easily."
Not all the men's seeds could enjoy such a smooth passage into the second round, with some succumbing to shock defeats.
Czech sixth seed Tomas Berdych, the 2010 Wimbledon runner-up, lost 7-6 7-6 7-6 to world No. 87 Ernests Gulbis of Latvia.
American 11th seed John Isner, the winner of the longest ever tennis match at Wimbledon in 2010 against Nicolas Mahut, was beaten in five sets by Colombia's Alejandro Falla.
Spanish 24th seed Marcel Granollers also tumbled out in five sets to Serbia's Victor Troicki, while Italian No. 23 Andreas Seppi lost after going the distance with Russian Denis Istomin.
Former finalist David Nalbandian, who was disqualified from last week's Aegon Championships final when he injured a line judge at London's Queen's Club, lost in straight sets to eighth seed Janko Tipsarevic.
Second seed and two-time champion Rafael Nadal plays his opening match against Brazil's Thomaz Bellucci on Tuesday, while home hope Andy Murray faces Russia's Nikolay Davydenko.
