As thousands of Democrats converge on Denver for the party's 45th convention, history will be made by officially nominating Sen. Barack Obama, the first African-American presidential nominee of a major U.S. political party.
A worker prepares the stage for the Democratic convention in Denver, which also hosted the Democrats in 1908.
But what about all the other history and trivia at the Democratic convention?
Check out these tidbits of convention history and political trivia.
The convention
The 2008 Democratic National Convention is being held later in the year than any previous convention for either party not already holding the White House.
Obama's acceptance speech on Thursday at this year's convention falls on the 45th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech.
The first Democratic convention was held in Baltimore, Maryland, in 1832 at which President Andrew Jackson was nominated for a second term.
Since 1996, the Democrats have scheduled the vice president nominee's acceptance speech on Wednesday night instead of Thursday, when the presidential nominee speaks.
This Wednesday, the convention will conduct a roll call vote to officially select Obama as the presidential nominee. Democrats have held a state-by-state roll call vote at every convention since 1964 when Lyndon Johnson was approved by acclamation.
The last time a Democratic presidential roll call went more than one ballot was in 1952. Adlai Stevenson was selected on the third ballot.
This year, Hillary Clinton's name will be placed in nomination Wednesday in a nod to her historic campaign. She is the first woman ever to win more than one presidential primary. She won 23 contests.
The Democratic convention in New York in 1924 was the longest in history -- 17 days.  Watch the best and worst of conventions »
The Democratic convention in Baltimore in 1872 was the shortest in history -- six hours.
The location
The first three days of the convention will be held at the Pepsi Center which is home to the NBA's Denver Nuggets and seats about 20,000 people.
Obama will give his acceptance speech on Thursday at Invesco Field which is home to the Denver Broncos and seats about 76,000 people.
John F. Kennedy was the last presidential nominee to give an acceptance speech outdoors when he spoke at the Los Angeles Coliseum in 1960.
Denver has hosted one other party convention, also Democratic, in 1908. It was the first convention held by a major party in a Western state. Democrats nominated William Jennings Bryan who eventually lost the election to the Republican nominee, William Howard Taft.
The candidates, past and present
If Obama is elected, he will be the third president from Illinois, following Abraham Lincoln and Ulysses S. Grant.
Sen. Joe Biden will be the first Delawarean to serve on a major party's national ticket. And how often has a presidential candidate turned to someone he ran against for his running mate? Since 1900, the Democrats have done it seven times; the GOP, eight times.
In 1932, Franklin Roosevelt became the first presidential nominee to deliver an acceptance speech in person at a convention.
Frederick Douglass was the first African-American to receive a vote for president at a major party's convention. Douglass received one vote at the 1888 GOP convention. Washington minister Channing Phillips was the first African-American to receive a vote for president at a Democratic convention. Phillips received 67.5 votes at the Democrats' 1968 convention.
In 1896, 36-year-old Democrat William Jennings Bryan became the youngest person to win a major party's presidential nomination.
The delegates
More than 4,000 delegates will attend the Democratic convention. An estimated 15,000 members of the media will also be on hand.
The oldest delegate at this year's Democratic convention is 91-year-old Sophie Masloff of Pennsylvania. The youngest is 17-year-old David Gilbert Pederson from Minnesota.
Slightly more than half of this year's Democratic convention delegates are women: 50.1 percent.
Almost half of the delegates at this year's Democratic convention --­ 44.3 percent -­- represent minority communities.
African-Americans make up almost 24.5 percent of this year's delegation, the largest share in Democratic convention history.
The first African-American delegates to a Democratic national convention were seated in 1936.
The first African-American delegates to a Republican national convention were seated in 1868.
The first woman delegate to a Democratic national convention was seated in 1908. She was from Colorado.
The first woman delegate to a Republican national convention was seated in 1900. She was from Utah.
Robert Yoon and Alan Silverleib contributed to this report.
