(CNN Student News) -- October 21, 2013
CNN Student News begins the week with a report on wildfires in Australia, and we discuss the challenges that refugees face after fleeing violence in Syria. We also explore a dispute between a university and many of its football players. Plus, we check out a flying car, and we share the history of a violin that fetched a Titanic record at auction.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Can media coverage of refugees in another country impact the refugees themselves? If so, how? If not, why not? Why might a news organization choose to tell their story?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. wildfire
2. R.M.S. Titanic
3. aerodynamics
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. According to the report, about how many registered Syrian refugees are there? What do CNN reporters say about the refugees' living conditions and potential outlook?
2. Why did Grambling State University's football team forfeit a recent game?
3. What's the story behind a violin that was recently auctioned for $1.7 million in England?
Discussion Questions:
1. What resources might Syrian refugees need? Where do you think these resources might come from? How might a refugee camp impact a surrounding area? Under what circumstances might a refugee know that it's safe to return home?
2. What are your thoughts on the protests by football players at Grambling State University? In your view, what should be the next steps taken by the players and by university officials? Explain.
3. What might be the pros and cons of owning a flying car versus owning both a car and a plane? Do you think that flying cars could become popular in the near future? Would you want to own the vehicle seen in the report? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Australia
Asia
Syria
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
