Will he stay or will he go?
Wayne Rooney will be staying at Manchester United, declared David Moyes during his first press conference as manager of the 20-time English champions.
Speculation has surrounded the England striker's future since the final part of last season, with former United manager Alex Ferguson suggesting Rooney had handed in a transfer request.
"Wayne is not for sale," Moyes, who signed a six-year contract to replace Ferguson in May, told reporters. "He is a Manchester United player and will remain a Manchester United player.
"I see a glint in his eye. He looks happy, he looks like he will knuckle down and get himself right."
Moyes, who is United's first new manager in 27 years, has the unenviable task of following in the footsteps of Ferguson, who led United through the most successful era in the club's history.
The recently-retired Scot guided United to 13 Premier League titles, four FA Cups and two European Champions League wins -- in 1999 and 2008.
Former Celtic defender Moyes explained how the first he knew of his imminent career move was when Ferguson informed him he would be replacing him.
"I'm retiring, next week, you are the next Manchester United manager," Moyes explained he had been told by Ferguson.
"The blood drained from my face. I was really shocked but incredibly thrilled.
"It was incredible when I met him. Within half an hour, he was talking about the squad, players and the staff. I was sworn to secrecy."
Ferguson will remain at the club as a director and ambassador and Moyes dismissed suggestion his compatriot's presence could undermine the new regime.
"I hope Sir Alex Ferguson is sitting in the directors' box," said Moyes. "He's been so good. I've already called him for advice a couple of times on a couple of matters."
Moyes has brought a raft of new coaches from Everton to United, but he has attempted to remain true to his new club's identity with two new appointments.
Veteran midfielder Ryan Giggs, who has spent his entire professional career with United, has been given the position of player-coach after 23-year trophy-laden years with the club.
Moyes has also appointed United academy graduate Phil Neville to his coaching staff, having worked with the former England international for eight years at Everton.
Retired midfielder Paul Scholes was also approached, but the former playmaker declined the position.
"I spoke with Paul Scholes as well. He felt he wanted to have some time off with his family," explained Moyes.
"I felt the right person was Ryan Giggs and he has been great. He has been on his UEFA pro licence course -- a European coaching qualification -- and after two days you can see how incredible a footballer he is. Ryan is taking steps forward and to get him and Phil Neville together is great."
