Lasith Malinga became the first bowler to claim a hat-trick of dismissals in two Cricket World Cups as his devastating spell of bowling helped Sri Lanka dismantle Kenya.
Malinga took six wickets for just 38 runs including three in three balls as he became the second bowler in as many days to record a hat-trick at the tournament after West Indies' paceman Kemar Roach's feat against Netherlands on Monday.
Minnows Kenya had no answer to his fierce spell of bowling, capitulating to 142 all out in Colombo before the hosts lost only one batsman as they recorded a  nine wicket victory in just 18 overs.
Kenya captain Jimmy Kamande won the toss and elected to bat but openers Maurice Ouma and Seren Waters fell before eight runs were on the board.
Brothers Collins and David Obuya steadied the ship and despite riding their luck both recorded half centuries as Kenya edged to 102-2.
Collins reached 52 before he was bowled by Malinga and brother David soon followed, caught by Thilan Samaraweera off the bowling of Muttiah Muralitharan for 51.
That was the end of Kenya's resistance as they lost their last five wickets for just 15 runs with Malinga their chief tormentor.
The first victim of his hat-trick was Tanmay Mishra, trapped LBW by a dipping yorker before Peter Ongondo's middle stump was removed by a similar delivery, traveling at 144 km per hour.
Malinga secured his second World Cup treble with another vicious yorker that clattered into Shem Ngoche's stumps.
Just a few balls later Malinga claimed his sixth victim as he bowled Elijah Otieno to end Kenya's innings on 142.
Sri Lanka wasted no time recording victory as Upul Tharanga smashed an unbeaten 67 and put on 72 with Tilkeratne Dilshan, before he was caught by Maurice Ouma off the bowling of Otieno.
Captain Kumar Sangakkara hit a quick 27 not out off just 24 balls to seal a comprehensive victory for Sri Lanka, who bounced back in style after their defeat by Pakistan.
But the co-hosts will undoubtedly face a much stiffer test in their next match when they face defending champions Australia on Saturday.
