Roger Federer set up an all Swiss final at the Monte Carlo Masters after beating an injured Novak Djokovic in the semifinal on Saturday.
The 32-year-old swept to 7-5 6-2 win over the Serb who was hampered by a wrist injury to book a place in Sunday's final against compatriot Stanislas Wawrinka.
Defending champion Djokovic, who was playing with a heavily strapped right forearm, battled hard but was powerless to stop Federer who wrapped up the win in just 75 minutes.
The 26-year-old sustained the injury prior to the tournament he told reporters earlier this week and now faces a race against time to be fit for the French Open which gets underway on May 25.
The world No. 2 revealed afterwards that the wrist does not need surgery but he couldn't say how long he might be out of action.
"I'm going to go see the doctors tonight and then tomorrow again have another MRI, see if anything changed in the seven days since I had the last one," Djokovic said.
"I'll just rest now. I cannot play tennis for some time -- how long, I don't know. It's really not in my hands anymore. I'm going to rest and see when it can heal 100%, then I will be back on the court."
Federer's victory secured a fourth final appearance at Monte Carlo in a tournament he has never won.
"For me it comes as a bit of a surprise to be in the finals again of a tournament this year, especially the first one on clay. But, of course, I'll take it," Federer said.
"I feel like I have put in the performance to be there, gave myself the opportunity this week. So I'm very happy with my play. Now I set up the dream finals for Stan and myself and Swiss tennis and the Swiss fans. It's very exciting times right now."
"I think it's incredible that we are in the finals together, the same week we've been playing well for some time now. That we're able to have this moment together on a center court, it's so rare."
Wawrinka made light work of Ferrer, who 24 hours earlier had put out eight-time champion Nadal, winning through 6-1 7-6 (7/3).
The 29-year-old raced through the first set in just over half-an-hour before overpowering a more aggressive Ferrer in the second.
The world No. 3 will need to be on top form again in Sunday's final against Federer who holds a 13-1 advantage in head-to-head matches.
Wawrinka will take heart from the fact that his solitary win came at Monte Carlo back in 2009 but also from the impressive showing against Ferrer.
"I'm not surprised with my game or the way I'm playing," Wawrinka said.
"Today was a little bit slower. It was a little bit windy at the beginning. It was important to move well, be aggressive. That was my plan. I started really well. I know when I'm moving well and I can dictate the game, I'm always good against him. I did a really good job, especially at the beginning."
Read more: Belinda Bencic ready to embrace greatness
Read more: Federer to put new baby ahead of French Open
