(CNN)"Boyhood" won big at Sunday's BAFTA ceremony, netting prizes for best film, best director and best supporting actress.
Director Richard Linklater filmed the critically acclaimed coming-of-age movie with the same cast over 12 years.
The EE British Academy Film Awards, known as the BAFTAs, are the most anticipated event for the British film industry. And with the Oscars only two weeks away, the ceremony is often seen as an indicator of who is in the running for an Academy Award.
Patricia Arquette won best supporting actress Sunday for her role as a mother in "Boyhood." She also won a Screen Actors Guild Award last month for her performance.
Held at the Royal Opera House in London and presented by comedian Stephen Fry, "The Grand Budapest Hotel" was at the top of the leader board going into the awards with 11 nominations. The film won five awards for best costume design, best production design, best makeup and hair, best original music and best original screenplay.
Eddie Redmayne won best leading actor for his portrayal of physicist Stephen Hawking in "The Theory of Everything," paying tribute to the Hawking family in an emotional acceptance speech.
Redmayne was not only a favorite of the BAFTA judges, but also with hundreds of fans who lined up -- some since Friday -- to watch him walk on the red carpet and chant his name as he went by.
But it was Hawking himself who got some of the biggest cheers of the night, drawing a standing ovation when he took the stage with actress Felicity Jones to present the award for best special digital effects.
"I'm particularly pleased to be presenting with the only person on the planet more intelligent than Stephen Fry," Jones said.
"Yes, and better looking," Hawking quipped.
Julianne Moore won best leading actress for her role as a professor battling Alzheimer's in "Still Alice."
J.K. Simmons won best supporting actor for his role in "Whiplash." The film also won awards for best editing and best sound.
"Birdman," which started the night with 10 nominations, walked away with the award for best cinematography.
The light-hearted "Lego Movie" won best animated film.
Formed on April 16, 1947, the British Academy of Film and Television Arts is a charity that rewards, develops and promotes excellence in film, television and games.
British rock band Kasabian opened the show.
Some stars posed for photographs on the red carpet with David Beckham, who presented the first award for the evening: outstanding British film, which went to "The Theory of Everything."
Who else won the night? See the full list here.
CNN's Kellie Morgan and Sara Mazloumsaki contributed to this report.
