January 30, 2014
What factored in to a snowy shutdown in parts of the South? We'll explore several different factors in today's show, and we'll tell you how the National Guard got involved. Also, a CNN journalist gets a firsthand view of Syria's largest city, which has seen some of the most bitter fighting in the country's civil war.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Where would you go to get credible information about driving in adverse conditions?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  National Guard
2.  Aleppo, Syria
3.  Cory Remsburg
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1.  What kinds of problems did some commuters and students face as a result of the snowstorm in Atlanta?  What are some factors being blamed for this situation? Why has the National Guard been called in to help?
2.  Where is the town of Aleppo?  Why did the Syrian government take a plane full of journalists there? How did some local officials respond to the journalists?  What did the journalists see in Aleppo?
3.  Who is Sgt. First Class Cory Remsburg?  What is his story?  Why did President Obama focus on him in his State of the Union speech?
Discussion Questions:
1.  What elements do you think factored in to citywide gridlock in Atlanta after the snowstorm?  Do you think that anything could be done to prevent the same kind of situation in future snowstorms?
2.  What do you know about driving in adverse weather?  Are there any tips you can share that could help others?  Explain.
3.  What message do you think that Syrian government officials were trying to convey to journalists about Aleppo?  Why do you think they chose journalists to receive this message?  How do you think a message by Syrian rebels message might differ from that of the government?
4.  In the video, we hear President Obama say that Sgt. Remsburg "never quits." How might young people be inspired by Sgt. Remsburg's story?  How do you overcome a personal challenge when you feel like quitting?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
