Stop us if you've heard this before: Tech geeks are the new rock stars. Silicon Valley is a "hotbed of innovation." And some people who work in tech aren't nerdy.
These nuggets of insight, and much more, are on display in a new preview video for an upcoming reality series, "Start-Ups: Silicon Valley," which premieres November 5 on Bravo.
The show promises to follow six budding tech entrepreneurs as they try to market their ideas, launch companies and get really, really rich. But Bravo is not interested in watching engineers code.
Instead, the clip shows its young, attractive stars lounging poolside, rock climbing, doing shots, going to toga parties and boasting about their " 'work hard, play hard' mentality."
There's no mention of what products, if any, they've created.
But the promo does pack an impressive number of clichés and tangled metaphors into its 2 minutes, 21 seconds. Among the better ones:
• "This is the moment we have to up our game even more than ever."
• "The future of the world is in our hands, and we're not sitting back and letting it pass us by."
• "Silicon Valley is just balls to the wall. It's not something you do if you don't want to roll the dice."
Then there's the young woman who motions to her face and says, "People have been intimidated, because this package generally doesn't come with a brain."
Shockingly, the Internet has not been kind.
"If you watch the latest promo for Bravo's Silicon Valley reality show and think, hey these entrepreneurs failed actors are just stringing together tech buzzwords, it's because that's exactly what they're doing," writes Gizmodo. "This show looks awful, but we'd be lying if we said we weren't going to watch Start-Ups ... with glee/horror."
The video trailer has a rating of two out of five stars -- on Bravo's own website. A commenter on the show's Facebook page says, "You focused on an exception not the rule and in the process you disrespect most of Silicon Valley."
And on Twitter, TechCrunch co-editor Alexa Tsotsis quipped, "Here Comes Silicon Valley Boo Boo."
The TV show has a respectable pedigree: It's co-produced by Randi Zuckerberg, former marketing director of Facebook and sister of its founder, Mark Zuckerberg. But early observers still give the promo low marks for authenticity.
"Dang! Real SV women sure don't look like that in the show. Well for that matter the men either," wrote one commenter on Gizmodo. "Sadly, Asian people apparently don't exist in the Hollywood version of Silicon Valley. No Indians either. Weird alternate universe indeed."
Our clever cousins at CNNMoney recommend that viewers turn the show into a drinking game in which they do a shot every time a "business development session" is held poolside and "swill the whole bottle when someone actually writes a line of code."
