The 2014 MTV Movie Awards in Los Angeles Sunday were filled with laughs, standout fashion and rocking musical performances.
Host Conan O'Brien kicked off the show with a record 50 celebrity cameos and an unexpected musical number, Lupita Nyong'o donned an eye catching pleated dress in dozens of colors from Karl Lagerfeld's Fall 2014 collection, and viewers got a sneak peak at the hottest upcoming action-adventure films with exclusive clips from "X-Men: Days of Future Past" and "The Amazing Spider-Man 2."
Viewers voted for their favorite onscreen performances this year in out-of-the-box categories like "best fight," "best scared s**tless performance," and "best WTF moment." The winner and musical performers took the stage at the Nokia Theater, leading to the top five memorable moments of the night:
No. 5: Rita Ora rips off Zac Efron's shirt
Several sculpted actors were nominated for "best shirtless performance," including Chris Hemsworth, Leonardo DiCaprio, Sam Claflin, and the lone female Jennifer Aniston for her strip tease in "We're the Millers."
But the prize went to a fit Zac Efron for a bedroom scene in "That Awkward Moment." Presenters Jessica Alba and Rita Ora warned that the winner better show off the assets and come up onstage sans top. But Efron ignored the mandate and began accepting his award very much covered by his shirt -- that is until Rita snuck up behind him and ripped open the front of his blue button-up. The "Awkward Moment" actor played along, pulling his shirt off while blowing kisses to the audience who weren't disappointed with the reveal of the tan and toned 6-pack that won him the prize.
No. 4: Seth Rogen shares a smooch with his mom
Dave Franco, Seth Rogen, and Zac Efron took the stage to present the steamy category of "best kiss." To kick off the smooching shenanigans they held their own kissing contest, where they announced that three lucky audience members had a golden ticket that won them some lip time with the stars.
Two beautiful young women bounded to the stage to claim their kisses with Franco and Efron ... but the third woman looked a little too familiar to Rogen. "Wait a minute, that's my mom!" he yelled. "Mom, no, go back to your seat Mom!" Yet with all three women onstage, the men delivered and Rogen, not one to back down on his word, completely sucked face with his mother on live national television. Or, at least the woman pretending to be his mother.
Jennifer Aniston, Emma Roberts, and Will Poulter were awarded the golden popcorn for "best kiss" for their three-way make out session in "We're The Millers."
No. 3: Channing Tatum and Mark Wahlberg take home two big prizes
Two of the evening's biggest honors went to leading men Channing Tatum and Mark Wahlberg.
Tatum won the Trailblazer Award for his diverse roles in funny, romantic, and action-packed films. As his buddy Jonah Hill said while presenting Tatum the award, "What's more trailblazing than an attractive man becoming a movie star, eh?" Tatum danced his way up to the stage to accept the honor, and gave a heartwarming speech of sincere thanks -- until he was silenced -- by Conan O'Brien's picture of his privates. Yes, the comedian found a way to keep chatty celebrities quiet; loading a dirty picture of himself smiling and pantless into the teleprompter.
Mark Wahlberg was honored with the "Generation Award" for his varied work over the course of his career. During his acceptance speech, the 42-year-old former rapper brought back his bad-boy side by dropping an F-bomb whenever he could. Joking that the "Generation Award" meant he was past his prime and too old for a comeback, Wahlberg quipped, "This is not the Channing Tatum 'You're dancing around, chicks want you' award. This is the 'You're f***g-done award. But look, it was a great run!'"
But his career is not really over yet. The cast of "Entourage" presented Wahlberg with his award, and the new "Entourage" movie hits theaters in 2015.
No. 2: Eminem and Rihanna give a 'Monster' performance
Even though the MTV Movie Awards are all about the silver screen, Rihanna and Eminem's musical performance of their hit "The Monster" had viewers and stars alike buzzing. Rihanna kicked off the smash hit backed by a live band, wearing an all-white dress and a FEAR headband. She was soon joined by Eminem, who made his entrance onstage amongst flashing red lights. It was the first time Slim Shady and the Barbados Babe have performed their smash hit on television, offering a sneak peak of their upcoming mini-tour set to hit New York, Los Angeles, and Detroit this summer. Other performances of the night included Ellie Goulding, Zedd, and twenty one pilots.
No. 1: 'Catching Fire' takes top prize
The biggest honor at the MTV Movie Awards is the "Best Movie of the Year," and this year the golden popcorn statuette for the prize went to "The Hunger Games: Catching Fire."
Johnny Depp presented the award to "Catching Fire" stars Sam Claflin and Josh Hutcherson. Hutcherson and Jennifer Lawrence, who did not attend, also took home Best Male and Female Performances. After winning the top prize of the night, Claflin thanked all the fans of the franchise, while Hutcherson went on to acknowledge the hundreds of people whose hard work went into making the blockbuster. He also acknowledged his fellow cast member, Philip Seymour Hoffman, who died of acute mixed drug intoxication in February.
"I know if Philip were here, he'd think this was really cool," Hutcherson said. "He's one of the actors I look up to most in my life, so wherever he is, this goes out to him as well."
