All-conquering Spain marched on at the Confederations Cup Sunday with a 3-0 win over Nigeria to top Group B.
Two goals from Jordi Alba and a further strike from substitute Fernando Torres made it a comfortable night in Fortaleza for the World and European champions.
Copa America winners Uruguay also confirmed their passage to the semifinals with a 8-0 rout of Pacific Islanders Tahiti in Recife, but both sides had a man sent off.
Uruguay will now face hosts Brazil in Belo Horizonte Wednesday in a potentially explosive all South American semifinal.
Spain take on fellow European powerhouses Italy in Fortaleza the following night.
Their third victory in a row was almost guaranteed from the moment left back Alba opened their scoring in the third minute with a superb solo effort.
African champions Nigeria briefly rallied, but Spain took total command in midfield and might have added further to the scoreline before the break.
Chelsea's Torres eventually emerged from the bench to score with a brilliant diving header from Pedro's cross just past the hour mark. It was his fifth goal in the tournament.
Alba rounded off the proceedings with another fine lone effort, sprinting clear from halfway to beat the Nigeria offside trap.
Abel Hernandez was in the goals for Uruguay, who merely needed to beat Tahiti to progress.
His 79-second strike was the fastest in Confederations Cup history.
The Palermo striker headed home Nicolas Lodeiro's corner and went on to grap three more goals.
Diego Perez, Lodeiro and substitute Luis Suarez with a late double were also on target.
The red cards came in the second half, the first to Andres Scotti for a second yellow after he had seen his penalty saved by Gilbert Meriel.
Tahiti were also reduced to 10 men when Teheivarii Wagemann picked up a second yellow.
The defeat marked the end of their fairytale inclusion in a top level FIFA tournament, losing to Nigeria, Spain and now Uruguay and conceding 24 goals to just one scored.
But they have proved ever popular underdogs and provided a rare lighter note in a tournament marked by mass demonstrations outside stadiums by Brazilians protesting against poor public services and corruption.
