It looks like Kanye West's new wife is rubbing off on him.
In the August issue of GQ magazine, the rapper talks about everything from his design ambitions -- he'd like to build amusement parks -- to his next album to his home life, including the relationship he's built with uber-celebrity Kim Kardashian.
According to West, his reality star bride, whom he married in May, has helped him acquire a unique set of skills: "Kim K skills," if you will.
"One of the reasons why I think that me and Kim are very powerful together isn't just the concept of celebrity or this mega rap star and this mega-beautiful pop star," West said. "What I had to learn from Kim is how to take more of her advice and less of other people's advice. There's a lot of Kim K skills that were added. In order to win at life, you need some Kim K skills, period."
And that's just one of things we now know about Yeezus. Here are eight more:
1. Kanye is a blowfish
"People have me pinned as a shark or a predator in some way, and in no way am I that. I wouldn't want to hurt anyone. I want to defend people. I want to help people. ... I'm not a shark, I'm a blowfish."
2. He gave a 45-minute toast at his own wedding
And he freely admits this.
"In the speech, I talked about the idea of collaboration and all the people involved working together and being able to change things. ... I said, "Wow, Carine (Roitfeld) is seven seats down from Kim (Kardashian). Farnaz (Farjam), the producer of the Kardashians and the producer of 'The Real World,' is four seats down from (director) Steve McQueen. And four seats, because in between them is Hosain (Rahman) from Jawbone. This is what I talked about. That was not a forty-five-minute speech to myself. Do you realize what that means for those people to be in that close of a proximity to each other?"
3.He doesn't care that Jay Z and Beyonce weren't there
It may have been Kim and Kanye's wedding, but all anyone wanted to know was whether Jay Z and Beyonce were going to be there. They ended up not attending -- although Beyonce gave her congratulations via Instagram -- and 'Ye seems fine with it.
"All that, I wouldn't even speak on. It doesn't even matter to me whatsoever, who would show up. Because the most important person to show up there, to me, was Kim."
4. He feels like he's constantly fighting
Even in the GQ interview. "I'm sitting right here, it's a fight. I'm fighting with the way I line my words up together and the way I place a sweater on top of a T-shirt. At this point, people know what's up. People know I'm smart. And people know that, whether it's SNL or Jimmy Kimmel, it's a trend to take the piss out of celebrity -- just as much of a trend as wearing a gray hoodie or driving a Prius."
5. Especially for celebrity rights
In his wedding toast, "I talked about the idea of celebrity, and celebrities being treated like blacks were in the '60s, having no rights, and the fact that people can slander your name. I said that in the toast. And I had to say this in a position where I, from the art world, am marrying Kim. And how we're going to fight to raise the respect level for celebrities so that my daughter can live a more normal life. She didn't choose to be a celebrity. But she is. So I'm going to fight to make sure she has a better life."
6. He also fought for Kim
"I had to fight for that for seven years."
7. He's actually not that sad
Despite what the #sadKanye meme would lead you to believe, he's feeling pretty good. "(W)e got the Vogue cover, Steve McQueen won the Oscar, we finally got married... You know? We have a child. We're a family now. I am an arbiter of taste, and people think that I have the ability to make things cool -- or if I'm doing it, it should be cool. And I feel that this stuff's starting to be cool. And that feels good to me. Because I don't like walking around with people thinking I'm doing uncool s**, because there's nothing I'm doing that's uncool. It's all innovative. You just might not understand it yet. But it's cool. Family is super cool. Going home to one girl every night is super cool. Just going home and getting on the floor and playing with your child is super cool. Not wearing a red leather jacket, and just looking like a dad and s**t, is like super cool.
8. He's also really happy about this
"Having someone that I can call Mom again. That s*** is super cool."
North West's earrings spark social media debate
Kim and Kanye turn Instagram into wedding album
