Tiger Woods is a long way from matching Jack Nicklaus' record of 18 major titles, but he is still in with a chance of equaling the golf legend's mark of 73 PGA Tour victories on Sunday.
When Woods shared the early lead during Saturday's third round of the Memorial Tournament, an event founded by Nicklaus and played on a course designed by the legendary the "Golden Bear," it seemed the script had already been written.
However, the 14-time major champion faded on the back nine with bogeys at 16 and 18 to finish the day four shots behind fellow American Spencer Levin.
"I've still got a lot of work to do tomorrow. Conditions will again be very difficult, so I'll need to grind it out," Woods said after signing for a one-over-par 73, his worst round of the week at Muirfield Village.
"I'm a little tired, but so be it. I had my opportunities but I missed a few putts I should have made. I'm still in the ball game, and anything can happen."
PGA Tour latest leaderboard
Woods has struggled in his last three starts after ending his long wait for his 72nd title with victory at Bay Hill in late March, but he carded solid rounds of 70 and 69 to be just one shot off the lead at the halfway stage in Dublin, Ohio.
A birdie at the first hole put him level at the top, but four bogeys left him facing an uphill battle to move level with Nicklaus, who is second on the all-time list behind Sam Snead's 82 wins.
Levin, by contrast, has only ever won on the Canadian Tour. The 27-year-old lost in a playoff at the Mayokaba Classic in Mexico last year, and his best finish this season is third at the Phoenix Open in February.
McIlroy seeking solutions after another missed cut
Levin goes into Sunday's final round with a one-shot advantage over halfway leader Rory Sabbatini after scoring 69 to the South African's 71.
Quail Hollow champion Rickie Fowler also shot 69 to be third on five-under 211, one ahead of Woods, while Japan's Ryo Ishikawa was tied for fifth on 213 with Sweden's Henrik Stenson and American Jonathan Byrd.
World No. 1 Luke Donald was tied for 36th on 219, 11 shots off the lead. The Englishman carded five bogeys in his 75.
