January 16, 2015
Whether you teach current events, history, geography or physical education, this Friday's edition of CNN Student News has content for your classroom. We're covering everything from recent terrorist attacks in Nigeria to the planned auction of a letter from a Titanic survivor. And we're explaining how two men free-climbed the Dawn Wall of El Capitan.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. In country did millions of demonstrators recently join world and religious leaders in a unity march against terrorism?
2. Approximately what fraction of Iraq and Syria are believed to be controlled by the ISIS terrorist group?
3. Name the private company that had mixed results from a recent mission involving its Falcon 9 rocket and Dragon space capsule.
4. In what year did a catastrophic, 7.0-magnitude earthquake strike the island nation of Haiti?
5. Which of the two main types of energy is associated with motion?
6. A massive monument to what Native American warrior, who died in 1877, is being constructed in South Dakota?
7. A false alarm forced astronauts aboard the International Space Station to evacuate the American section Wednesday. To what country's section did they go?
8. How many vertebrae are in your neck?
9. What African country, which is struggling with terrorist attacks from Boko Haram, is led by President Goodluck Jonathan?
10. In what European nation would you find Verviers, where officials say a police raid prevented an attack by a suspected terrorist cell?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
