Former England captain John Terry has announced his retirement from international football with immediate effect.
The Chelsea defender, who won 78-caps for his country, was scheduled to attend an FA hearing on Monday for allegedly racially abusing QPR's Anton Ferdinand.
Terry was cleared of the allegations by a London court in July.
Terry, who lost the armband on two separate occasions for off-field incidents, says the FA has made his "position with the national team untenable".
And the 31-year-old has now confirmed he will be unavailable to represent England in their quest to qualify for the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.
In a statement, he said: "I am today announcing my retirement from international football. I would like to thank the England managers who have selected me for my 78 caps.
"I have had great pleasure in sharing that honor with all the players that I've played with. I would like to thank them, the fans and my family for their support and encouragement during my international career.
"Representing and captaining my country is what I dreamed of as a boy and it has been a truly great honor. I have always given my all and it breaks my heart to make this decision.
"I want to wish Roy Hodgson and the team every success for the future.
"I am making this statement today in advance of the hearing of the FA disciplinary charge because I feel the FA, in pursuing charges against me where I have already been cleared in a court of law, have made my position with the national team untenable.
"I now look forward to playing for Chelsea FC, and challenging for domestic and European honors, and I want to thank the fans and the club for their continued support."
Terry made his England debut in 2003 against Serbia and Montenegro and was made permanent captain in 2008.
But his tenure as captain came to an ignominious end in February 2010 after he was revealed as the sportsman behind a gagging injunction involving his private life.
A court order had previously been in place, covering an alleged relationship between married Terry and French model Vanessa Perroncel -- a former partner of teammate Wayne Bridge.
Terry was restored as captain by Fabio Capello on March 19 2011 before losing the armband once again following the alleged incident with Ferdinand during Chelsea's game at Queens Park Rangers last October.
Terry's final game for England was earlier this month when he played in the 5-0 win over Moldova in Chisinau.
