Nevada Democratic Sen. Harry Reid will lose his slot as majority leader once the GOP takes control of the Senate next year. But his Nevada counterpart in the Senate, Republican Dean Heller, is reportedly working to unseat Reid altogether in 2016.
Heller said he "of course" reached out to Nevada GOP Gov. Brian Sandoval to run to unseat Reid in 2016, according to a report out Wednesday from the Las Vegas Review Journal. Sandoval, the first Hispanic man elected to statewide office in his state, handily won his gubernatorial bid with more than 70 percent of the vote earlier this month.
Sandoval told the Las Vegas Sun this week that he is committed to serving out his term as governor, counting himself out for a move to Washington in two years if he sticks to his word.
"I think he'll want to assess, and we'll give him a little time to do that," Heller said. "There are plenty of people I'm sure could play in that race."
Reid, a Senator since 1987, has already signaled his intentions to run for reelection in 2016. But he faces an uphill battle similar to the competitive race for his last re-election in 2010.
Unseating him -- a long-time Democratic fixture in Congress considered a lightning rod figure by some on the right -- could be a symbolic victory for conservatives looking to maintain their new Senate majority beyond 2016.
"Senator Reid and Senator Heller have known each other for a long time," Reid's spokeswoman Kristen Orthman said in a statement to the Review-Journal. "Working together, they are able to do good things for Nevada and that is our top priority."
Reid's office did not immediately return CNN's request for comment.
Heller lost his bid Thursday to become chair of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, a group which works to promote and elect GOP senators. Sen. Roger Wicker of Mississippi will replace outgoing NRSC chairman Rob Portman of Ohio.
The position was viewed as a critical one for Heller: It would have increased his authority in the Senate leading into the 2016 elections, giving him authority to recruit candidates like Sandoval and actively fundraise for them.
