Remains discovered in Virginia earlier this week are those of missing police officer Kevin Quick, a Virginia State Police spokeswoman said Saturday.
Earlier, police had said the officer was dead and charged five people in connection with the killing, but had not identified his remains.
On Saturday, police confirmed that a man's body found Thursday was indeed Quick's.
Quick was a reserve captain -- a volunteer officer -- in the small central Virginia city of Waynesboro.
Authorities have not said how, when or why Quick died. Nor have they specified his relation to those involved in his disappearance and death, including whether he knew them personally, was targeted for his police work or perhaps was randomly targeted.
State Police spokeswoman Corrine Geller said three people were arrested Thursday in connection with the case -- 22-year-old Gert Wright, 49-year-old Leslie Hope Casterlow and 31-year-old Anthony Stokes Jr.
All three are being held without bond at Henricho County Jail on felony charges of being "a principal in the second degree" to Quick's death and of gang participation.
This is in addition to previously announced arrests of three siblings Tuesday night at a hotel in the Washington suburb of Alexandria, Virginia.
Daniel Mathis and his sister, Mersadies Shelton, have been charged with grand larceny in the theft of Quick's 1999 Toyota 4Runner. A second sister, Shantai Shelton -- who has not yet been charged directly in Quick's case -- was picked up on an outstanding warrant from Louisa County, east of Charlottesville, where Sunday night's armed robbery took place, Geller said earlier this week.
In 1990, Quick joined his father in the reserve arm of the Waynesboro police department -- members of which aren't paid but hold ranks, have badges and carry firearms like full-time officers.
He rose up the ranks while working paying day jobs, including the past 15 years as a production coordinator for the synthetic fabrics company Invista. His position there was eliminated in what Waynesboro police Sgt. Brian Edwards called an "amicable" separation.
