After 20 years, over 300 goals and a host of major honors, Thierry Henry has called time on his football career.
The Frenchman, who won the 1998 World Cup and Euro 2000 with his country, is hanging up his boots to pursue a broadcasting career.
Although he made his breakthrough with French team Monaco, and spent time with Juventus, Barcelona and latterly New York Red Bulls, Henry is best remembered for a glittering eight-year spell with Arsenal in the English Premier League.
Henry became the London club's all-time leading goalscorer and helped the Gunners win two league titles and the FA Cup on three occasions.
"It has been an incredible journey and I would like to thank all the fans, team mates and individuals involved with AS Monaco, Juventus, Arsenal FC, FC Barcelona, the New York Red Bulls and of course the French National Team that have made my time in the game so special," he said on his official Facebook page.
"I have had some amazing memories (mostly good!) and a wonderful experience. I hope you have enjoyed watching as much as I have enjoyed taking part. See you on the other side..."
Henry's move to Arsenal in 1999, after a troubled year in Turin with Juventus, saw him reunited with former Monaco coach Arsene Wenger.
The pair led Arsenal through a golden era, including an unbeaten Premier League campaign during the 2003-04 season.
That team that won 26 and drew 12 of its 38 league matches during that campaign became known as the "Invincibles."
Henry left Arsenal in 2007 and headed to Barcelona, where more titles lay in wait.
During three seasons in Catalonia, Henry won the Spanish championship on two occasions and helped the club lift the European Champions League in 2009.
The 37-year-old brought the curtain down on his player career with a four-year stint in the "Big Apple," helping New York Red Bulls win Major League Soccer's Eastern Conference in 2010 and 2013.
Although his immediate focus will be punditry work with British broadcaster Sky TV, Henry has not ruled out a coaching career.
"I don't know if I can be a good coach or not, but the desire is there," he told Sky.
