Peter Hedblom overcame a final-round charge from fellow Swedish golfer Martin Erlandsson to win the Johnnie Walker Championship by one shot in Scotland on Sunday.
Peter Hedblom went one better than his second-placed finish at the KLM Open last weekend.
Erlandsson had resumed play in 20th place six shots adrift of third-round leader Hedblom, but surged up the leaderboard with a sensational 10-under-par 62 to set the clubhouse lead on 12-under 276.
The 35-year-old, who was third at Gleneagles two years ago after a closing 66, birdied seven successive holes from six to 12.
He had already picked up shots at two of his opening four greens, then also birdied 17.
Hedblom, however, kept his nerve as he went one better than last weekend, when he lost the Dutch KLM Open in a play-off with England's Simon Dyson -- the fourth time out of four he has been beaten in sudden death.
The 39-year-old started birdie-bogey-birdie, then rattled off four successive birdies before dropping a shot at the 15th hole.
However, he immediately bounced back with a birdie at the par-five 16th and parred the last two to take victory, his third on the European Tour following wins in Malaysia and Morocco.
He carded a five-under 67 to follow up successive rounds of 68 as he denied world No. 365 Erlandsson a maiden title on the circuit.
Erlandsson is becoming noted as a strong finisher, having closed with a course-record 63 at the KLM Open, where he tied for 15th.
Defending champion Gregory Havret of France closed with 67 to share third place on 278 with former British Open champion Paul Lawrie, who carded 69 after starting the day one shot adrift of Hedblom in second.
The Scot had led the tournament for the first two rounds, in which he did not drop a stroke.
His final round featured an eagle on the par-five ninth hole, which followed two birdies, but his title challenge faded with bogeys at 12 and 15.
Lawrie's compatriot Gary Orr was fourth on nine-under 279 following a fine 64, which featured 10 birdies and a double-bogey at the par-four fifth hole.
