Inside the Kansas City home that Jovan Belcher fled, his baby daughter wailed, his mother was in hysterics and his girlfriend was quiet. Barely breathing.
This is what the NFL linebacker left behind on Saturday in a rush of violence that left many wondering why.
Few answers came from 911 tapes released this week by police. But the tapes provide a heartbreaking soundtrack of the fleeting moments the morning that police say Belcher killed his girlfriend Kassandra Perkins and then later turned the gun on himself just outside the front door of the Chiefs' practice facility.
Opinion: Manhood, football and suicide
"Oh my God. Oh my God. Kasi," Belcher's mother, Cheryl Shepherd, bawled. "The baby is crying ... Please get the ambulance here!"
"OK, we're on the way," the dispatcher said. "We've been on the way the whole time. How old is the patient?"
"Twenty-two," the mother said.
"Is she breathing?" the dispatcher asked.
"She is still breathing but barely. Please hurry. I don't know how many times he shot her. They had been arguing ..." the mother said.
"OK, she's been shot?" the dispatcher asked.
KCTV: NFL will provide benefits to Belcher's daughter
Then moments later the mother seemed to direct her shouts to the wounded woman in the home.
"You hear me? Kassandra! Hey!. Stay with me!"
"Ma'am," the dispatcher said. "Listen. Is she awake?"
"She's barely," the mother said. "She's just barely. She is moving when I talk to her."
"OK," the dispatcher said.
"Oh, God," the mother moaned.
"Is she bleeding?" The dispatcher asked.
"Yes, she is ...."
But the rest of what's said was obscured by the screams of the young child.
A police officer gets on the phone and tries to get information about Belcher from the distraught mother.
The mother did not answer questions about the whereabouts of her 6-foot-2, 228-pound son, a standout 25-year-old starting linebacker for the Kansas City Chiefs.
Instead, in a voice rising as the moments passed, the mother begged for an ambulance.
"Ma'am, the ambulance is on the way. What's your son's name? What kind of car did your son leave in? Or was he on foot?" the officer said.
There was no response.
"Sounds like she disconnected," the dispatcher said. "I wanted to give her some bleeding advice also ... Ma'am, are you there?"
But there was no response.
And all that can be heard are the screams of the baby.
Strong reactions on football player's murder-suicide
