A new report by the New Jersey legislative committee investigating Gov. Chris Christie's involvement in the Bridgegate controversy shows an inconsistency between a top aide's sworn testimony and phone records.
National Democrats quickly seized on the development as proof that Christie and his aides have stonewalled the investigation, even as the 136-page report failed to find any conclusive evidence tying Christie to the scandal. And a top New Jersey Democrat vowed the investigation would continue.
In July, Regina Egea, a senior Christie aide, told the legislative panel investigating Bridgegate that she texted Christie during a key committee hearing last year and did not recall getting a response from the governor.
But phone records show that it was Christie who texted Egea before the two traded a dozen messages during the hearing, according to a copy of the report obtained by CNN.
The text messages were deleted before the committee could review them, but the report shows Egea's sworn testimony was not accurate.
Related: Bridgegate panel co-chair: "We are not done"
The report is inconclusive on what Christie knew about last year's lane closings that snarled traffic on the George Washington Bridge. Christie has denied knowing anything about the lane closures until they were over.
On Dec. 9 last year, the state Assembly Transportation Committee heard testimony from three Port Authority officials and Egea monitored the hearing, Egea told the investigative committee in July. She said she texted the governor to tell him the Port Authority officials' testimony was professional and that she did not recall getting a response from Christie.
But according to the report, Egea's phone records show that Christie texted her during the officials' testimony and the texting continued throughout the hearing.
"This is taking place on Dec. 9. This is taking place several days before the governor makes his press statement on Dec. 13 that he didn't know anything about this issue," said John Wisniewski, the Democratic co-chair of the investigative committee.
He added, "You know (the texts are) relevant to the investigation. You know the committee is going to want to look at them. To delete them and claim it was in the ordinary course of business strains credibility. It's just not believable."
A Christie spokesman declined to comment, pointing instead to what the governor said about the issue in August.
"I have no recollection of her even sending me a text," he said. "It obviously was something of no moment or no import because I have no recollection of it at all."
The governor's office also released a statement from Randy Mastro, the attorney Christie hired to do an internal investigation.
"The Committee has finally acknowledged what we reported nine months ago -- namely, that there is not a shred of evidence Governor Christie knew anything about the GWB lane realignment beforehand or that any current member of his staff was involved in that decision," he said. "The Committee's work has simply corroborated our comprehensive investigation."
