(CNN)  -- Manchester City thrashed Sunderland 5-0 to keep alive their slim English Premier League title hopes and to cement their position in the top four Champions League places.
England international Adam Johnson, making his first start since injuring his ankle in January, opened the scoring in the ninth minute while captain Carlos Tevez doubled the Blues' advantage on the quarter hour from the penalty spot.
Second-half strikes from David Silva, Patrick Vieira and Yaya Toure completed the rout as City went above reigning champions Chelsea into third in the standings.
They are six points clear of fifth-placed Tottenham, who pipped them for the final Champions League place last season, but have played a game more.
Leaders Manchester United have a seven-point lead over Arsenal, who have played a game less, with their neighbors City 10 points adrift.
The strikes from Johnson, who exchanged passes with Toure before finishing neatly, and Tevez, who was fouled by Michael Turner to draw the penalty, effectively ended the match as a contest with City always in command against a Sunderland side in poor recent form.
Silva scored after a Mario Balotelli shot was blocked, Vieira with his first touch after coming off the bench and Toure after an error by Sunderland captain Lee Cattermole.
City's Dutch international Nigel de Jong said the result was important for their Champions League ambitions.
"There are still seven games to go and anything can happen but this is a great confidence boost for our team -- we are real contenders for the Champions League places." he told Sky Sports.
In Italy's Serie A, Uruguay striker Edinson Cavani scored a hat-trick as Napoli came back from 2-0 and 3-2 down to beat Lazio 4-3 to move into second.
They trail leaders AC Milan by just three points after their 3-0 derby victory over reigning champions Inter Milan, who are now third, five points adrift, on Saturday night.
Goals from Stefano Mauri and Andre Dias gave Lazio a two-goal lead before Andrea Dossena and Cavani, with his first, drew Napoli level in a thriller.
A Salvatore Aronica own goal put the visitors back in front but Cavani, from the penalty spot, equalized and then grabbed a superb winner for Walter Mazzarri's team.
Lazio finished with 10-men as Giuseppe Biava after was sent off in giving away the penalty.
Cavani tried his best to shrug off title talk after their superb win.
"We try to win every game and to do our best and the points will be counted up at the end of the season," he told Sky Sport Italia.
Defeat for Lazio dents their Champions League hopes as they stay outside of the top four in Italy.
In Spain's La Liga, second half penalties from Mali international Freddy Kanoute and Spanish striker Alvaro Negredo helped Sevilla to a 3-1 home win over strugglers Real Zaragoza.
The victory sees them move to fifth in the standings.
Diego Perotti had put Sevilla ahead on 43 minutes only for giant Czech Jiri Jarosik to level two minutes after the break.
