 Violence echoed across a volatile Pakistani province and an adjacent tribal region on Saturday, with dozens reported killed in the latest military push, a drone strike, and a car bombing targeting a school bus.
A Pakistani girl displaced by the military's offensive against the Taliban rests at a camp Saturday north of the capital.
Pakistan's artillery and airstrikes against Taliban militants in North West Frontier Province left 47 suspected militants dead in operations over the last 24 hours, the military said.
"Security forces are closing in from different directions and have been able to inflict more casualties," the military said in the daily roundup of its offensive in the Swat district and adjoining regions.
The troops have been fighting to oust militants from districts across Pakistan's North West Frontier Province. Forty-five people were killed in various areas of Dir, where four militants were arrested.
The military conducted search-and-destroy operations in Shangla district, where they targeted terrorist hideouts and reported the arrest of one militant leader and the death of another.
In Swat, the military said it killed a militant commander and were getting closer to the city of Mingora, where they isolated and blocked "the movement of fleeing terrorists," amid the sound of intense exchanges of fire.  Watch Pakistani troops pound Taliban positions »
In the adjacent tribal region, a missile believed fired by a drone overnight struck a madrassa, a religious school, a Pakistani intelligence official said. More than 20 people were killed, according to local and Taliban sources.
The strike was near the village of Mir Ali in North Waziristan, one of seven districts in Pakistan's tribal regions. The official asked not to be identified because he is not authorized to speak to the media.
According to a count by CNN, this is the 16th suspected missile strike in Pakistan this year.
Pakistan has complained repeatedly about what it says are American airstrikes on its territory. The U.S. military in Afghanistan has not commented on the strikes, which typically target Taliban fighters in the border region.
But the United States is the only country operating in the region known to have the capability to launch missiles from remote-controlled drones.
In Peshawar, at least nine people were killed and 33 hurt Saturday when a car bomb exploded while a school bus passed on a road, local authorities said.
The school bus was carrying handicapped children. It is not clear if any of them were killed, but as many as seven were injured. Peshawar is the capital of North West Frontier Province.
More than a million people have been displaced in northwestern Pakistan as a result of the two-week-old military offensive with the Taliban, the U.N. refugee agency said Saturday.
Antonio Guterres, high commissioner for refugees, said 1,171,682 people have been registered as internally displaced people.
These are in addition to the 553,916 displaced people who've fled eruptions of fighting in the tribal areas and North West Frontier Province since August.
CNN's Reza Sayah contributed to this report.
