(CNN Student News) -- September 9, 2013
Today on CNN Student News, we report on an important vote facing Congress, with different messages circulating around the U.S. We also step inside a Syrian refugee camp to get a sense of the challenges facing the displaced. And we explain how Tokyo won the opportunity to host the Olympics for the first time since 1964.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What elements might you include in a video that's intended to raise awareness about hazing?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. refugee camp
2. concave shape
3. hazing
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. In what Syrian border country does a refugee arrive every 15 seconds?
2. What city was chosen to host the 2020 Olympic Games?
3. What's the science behind how a London skyscraper helped damage a nearby car?
Discussion Questions:
1. How might a massive influx of refugees strain a host country's resources? What are some resources that Syrian refugees might need? In what ways might aid groups be able to help?
2. What are some criteria that could be used to determine a host city for the Olympics? What are your thoughts on the city that was chosen for the 2020 games? If you were attending the Olympics, what events would you want to see?
3. What kinds of "safeguards" do you think Florida A&M University put in place against hazing? How do you think students there might respond to these? Why do you think that hazing might be an issue in some schools but not in others?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
Tokyo, Japan
Europe
London, England
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
