Police are searching for a teen they say shot and killed someone in a Seattle-area bar where Seahawks players and other celebrities were partying.
The shooting occurred early Monday morning just a few hours after the Seattle Seahawks won their way into the NFL playoffs with a victory over the San Francisco 49ers. Several players and other celebrities were among hundreds of people gathered at Munchbar, a popular nightspot in Bellevue, Washington. Another person was wounded in the shooting. No players were injured in the incident, which occurred just after 1 a.m. PT Monday.
Bellevue Police said Tuesday they were still searching for 19-year-old Ja'mari Alexander Alan Jones and had secured an arrest warrant for the teen.
Jones is "a suspect in the murder of a 30-year-old man early this morning at the Munchbar in downtown Bellevue," Bellevue Police said in a statement. "Jones is believed to be armed and dangerous."
Jones was one of three teens arrested in 2008 for the beating death of Ed Michael, who is better known by his nickname "Tuba Man," CNN affiliate KOMO reported.
The teen was sentenced to less than a year in juvenile detention for a first-degree manslaughter charge in the death of the popular musician who played his tuba outside Seattle venues, the affiliate reported.
The shooting in the bar Monday sent the large crowd of about 600 people scrambling.
Seahawks defensive end Greg Scruggs tweeted "I'm OK" and "Everybody else is good too! .. Ignorance at its best right there" after the shooting.
CNN affiliate KING reported that the players were in a VIP lounge and were escorted to a safe place after the incident.
The station also reported that Aubrey O'Day, who has appeared in several TV reality shows, tweeted that everyone in the players' group hit the floor when the gunfire erupted. In other tweets, she described how she saw a body and how people had to crawl out through the kitchen.
"I saw the guy laying on the floor and blood everywhere... Wasnt sure of his status," she said.
CNN's Chandler Friedman contributed to this story.
