(EW.com) -- Robert Pattinson appeared on "Good Morning America" today to give his second post-KStew interview — and, once again, he got through the proceedings without directly speaking about the scandal. Pattinson appeared a bit more relaxed when chatting with George Stephanopoulos than he did Monday night on "The Daily Show." But the heartthrob still stammered and squirmed a bit when Stephanopoulos asked about his personal life, even though She Who Must Not Be Named was never invoked directly.
Stephanopoulos began by taking a leaf out of Jon Stewart's book, offering Pattinson some comfort food — in this case, a big box of Cinnamon Toast Crunch, which is Pattinson's favorite — before getting down to the nitty gritty. "Everybody just wants to know, how are you doing?" the GMA host asked. "And what do you want your fans to know about your personal life?"
Pattinson took a fortifying sip from his mug before giving his answer: "You know, they seem pretty excited about... whatever," he said with a grin, indicating the throngs outside the GMA studio with a tip of his head. "I'd like my fans to know that... Cinnamon Toast Crunch only has 30 calories a bowl in it, for instance," he continued. "Pretty much everything that comes out of my mouth is irrelevant."
"People read things into it," Stephanopoulos probed.
But from there, the conversation got more broad.
Pattinson reiterated that he only does interviews like this one in order to promote his films, and added that he's never gotten used to the paparazzi attention he garners: "I think if you start getting used to it, it means you're going crazy." The host then changed the subject to Cosmopolis, praising Pattinson's performance as a "master of the universe." (Stephanopoulos: Secret 50 Shades of Grey fanboy?)
Pattinson — who, for the record, still doesn't have a publicist — ended the interview by addressing a remark he made to Time magazine yesterday: "The world would be a much better place, I think, if all these bankers and billionaires were followed by paparazzi and studied as carefully."
"The weird thing is, I can't really tell you what's interesting about actors either," he said. "People don't find the personal lives of people with much, much more power than any celebrity would have — don't find their personal lives interesting. I think if you put the lives of people who controlled billions of dollars on the front news of every single paper, the world would be a better place. It's the spin culture. If you took away publicists and things and people spoke for themselves, then they'd have to be responsible for their words."
Oh, and for the record: Cinnamon Toast Crunch is 130 calories per serving. Each bowl does, however, contain just 30 calories from fat.
See the full story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
