(CNN Student News) -- February 8, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Egypt • Sudan
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Today's show goes out to our Facebook fans at Wheeler High School in Marietta, Georgia. Get ready to update your maps, because the world is about to get a new country! I'm Carl Azuz. This is CNN Student News!
First Up: Meeting with Business
AZUZ: First up, President Obama and business: can they work together? The president has not had the best relationship with business leaders, specifically with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The group was against the health care and Wall Street reform laws that the president pushed for and passed. And the Chamber supported a lot of Republican candidates in last year's midterm elections.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the country's largest business organization. It represents 3 million businesses from all across the U.S. And its main purpose is to work on behalf of those businesses, especially in Washington.
During his speech to the 200 members of the Chamber yesterday, President Obama acknowledged the tension between them. But he says he's convinced that they can and must work together. One thing that both sides want: more jobs. The president promised that he'll work on programs and policies, like spending money on education and improving transportation networks, that would help the country's businesses and would help get the economy back on track.
Economy in Turmoil
AZUZ: Things are moving forward in Egypt. The country's new Cabinet had its first meeting yesterday. There are some protesters still out in the streets, saying they're not gonna budge until President Hosni Mubarak steps down. Mubarak has said he won't run for re-election in September. We've talked a lot about what all this political upheaval could mean for Egypt's government in the future. Frederik Pleitgen is looking at what it means for Egypt's economy right now. Here's his report.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: As anti-Mubarak protesters remain entrenched in Cairo's Tahrir Square, the effects of the uprising are visible nationwide. This is Stella Heliopolis, a massive real estate development outside Egypt's capital with 1,500 housing units under construction. Owner Ayoub Adly Ayoub says work has come to a virtual standstill since the protests began.
AYOUB ADLY AYOUB, PRESIDENT, REMCO GROUP: We had to slow down because we could not get the materials in time, most of the laborers could not come. Now, we are starting to organize ourselves to go back to work. Maybe $4 - $5 million of losses per month at least.
PLEITGEN: Ayoub says if things don't improve, he might have to start laying off workers. One bank estimates this crisis is costing Egypt more than $300 million a day as the economy remains in a state of paralysis. Egypt's economy is losing a lot of money every day and business people fear the long-term consequences could be grave, as investors lose their confidence and tourists start choosing other destinations. Many business sectors are affected, some only now coming back to life. As shop owners slowly began opening their doors on Cairo's streets on Sunday, banks serviced customers for this first time since the beginning of the crisis. To prevent the masses from pulling their cash out of the institutions, private withdrawals were limited to $10,000 or 50,000 Egyptian pounds. Despite long lines, most appeared calm.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE [TRANSLATED]: "There are a lot of people who are withdrawing money because banks were closed in the last few days," this man says. "Many people are withdrawing money."
PLEITGEN: Ayoub Adly Ayoub says though the fallout from the uprising is seriously hurting his business interests, he understands the anti-government protesters.
AYOUB: I have personal sympathy for them. I think there was corruption, it is a time of change. But my personal view is that we should give the people that are in charge now that are trying to clean up and put this country together a chance.
PLEITGEN: But it doesn't seem like the anti-government protesters are willing to give the current government that chance. As many Egyptians fight for social change, many workers on construction sites like this one are fighting and praying to keep their jobs. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Cairo, Egypt.
(END VIDEO)
Sudan Vote
AZUZ: To the south of Egypt is Sudan, a country that's about to be split in half -- literally. In a referendum last month, nearly 99 percent of southern Sudanese voted to split from the north and form their own country. Sudan's north and south fought a war against each other for more than two decades. The peace treaty that ended that conflict led to this vote. The country's president has said he'll accept the results of the election, so Southern Sudan could become the world's newest nation by this summer.
This Day in History
AZUZ: It's February 8th. This day in history: In 1910, the Boy Scouts of America was founded by William D. Boyce. He was inspired after being helped by a British scout when he got lost in London.
Is This Legit?
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? The symptoms of a concussion can include nausea, dizziness and memory problems. This is true. And anyone who's gotten one of these brain injuries is more likely to get another one.
Protecting Young Athletes
AZUZ: Concussions are pretty common in contact sports like football. At the NFL level, there are around 100 concussions every year. But when you look at the number of teens and younger kids who go to the ER for sports-related concussions, that number jumps to more than 100,000! Doctor Sanjay Gupta shows us how one program uses prevention and preparation to address the problem.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Most of these players see themselves as mini-versions of these guys.
CHRIS NOWINSKI, PRESIDENT, SPORTS LEGACY INSTITUTE: Youth football is trying to be the professional game, sometimes for good, but sometimes for bad.
GUPTA: The good? Competition. Camaraderie. The bad? Concussions. And the ugly? A tendency trickling down from the pros to hide head injuries.
NOWINSKI: When you are 13, you have the same drives to play through pain, play through injury - not wanting to look weak in front of your friends or weak in front of your enemies. Guys went great lengths to hide injuries or not talk about them.
GUPTA: It turns out hiding has consequences, first seen at the NFL level. Retired players consumed with depression, rage, memory problems. Their symptoms associated with the mysterious brain disease called chronic traumatic encephalopathy. It looks like dementia, but it strikes players in their 30s, 40s and 50s, sometimes younger.
NOWINSKI: The reality is, we do have cases of teenagers having the disease. We're primary football players. Some play multi-sports, but they all had brain trauma.
CARMEN RODA, PRESIDENT, WESTPORT POLICE ATHLETIC LEAGUE: Well, it's brain damage. I mean, that's what it comes down to. How can you want that for any child?
Does your head go up or down?
TEAM: Up!
RODA: Head goes up or down?
TEAM: Up!
RODA: Let's go!
GUPTA: Carmen Roda coaches the Wreckers. It's a team of fifth graders in Westport, Connecticut. Last year, he had a typical playbook.
RODA: We do drills like bull in the ring, you know, one kid's in the middle and you walk around and tap a kid, and then you just go at it, head-to-head, hammer to hammer.
GUPTA: And during games?
RODA: The kid came out and he got a hard hit, what we used to call a stinger or a ding, you know. We would sit there and say, "Hey, are you OK?" And then send him back in if he answered yes.
GUPTA: When his team clocked 20 concussions in one season, Coach Roda said enough. His new playbook starts with a concussion course for coaches, parents and players; a trainer at games and practice.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you have any nausea or dizziness?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No.
GUPTA: And far less hitting in practice; an emphasis on technique, not brute force.
RODA: This is what we don't want to see. OK? The spine is lined up. The head is down.
GUPTA: The impact? The Wreckers cut the number of concussions in half and still made the playoffs.
NOWINSKI: It did not hurt the kids' ability to play the game. It just dramatically lowered their injury rate and their head trauma rate. And so, when you look at how simple those things were made in one season, in one program, you wonder why isn't everybody else doing this?
(END VIDEO)
Facebook Promo
AZUZ: Good info there. Now, you heard today's show dedicated to some of our Facebook fans. If you love our show and you're on Facebook, show us some like! Head over to Facebook.com/CNNStudentNews and click the "like" button. We'd like that a lot.
Before We Go
AZUZ: We might have bitten off more than we can chew with today's Before We Go story. But at least we're in good company. All of these ingredients combine to make this! The Stellanator! Six hamburger patties; 12 pieces of bacon; six fried eggs; all the usual fixin's; plus jalapenos and peanut butter! If you haven't eaten lunch yet, you might not want to. This thing takes up the entire grill just to make a Stellanator. And more than 60 people have tried and failed to take it down.
Goodbye
AZUZ: But for the valiant effort, they deserve a patty on the back. After looking at the bun-dle of food, we want to know what you would include on your extreme burger. You can talk to us about your recipes at Facebook.com/CNNStudentNews. We'll see you again tomorrow.
