The parents of a missing 10-month-old Missouri girl late Thursday indicated they are cooperating with detectives, counter to what police said earlier in the evening, a relative said.
A woman who identified herself as Ashley Irwin, sister of Jeremy Irwin, read a statement on behalf of her brother and Deborah Bradley, parents of missing infant Lisa Irwin.
"We have never stopped cooperating with the police. We've been cooperative from day one and we continue to assist the police with the investigation," the statement said. "The main goal has always been to find Lisa and bring her home. That remains the sole focus of the parents."
Ashley Irwin said the parents, who will release another statement Friday, wanted to thank police and the community for their efforts and prayers.
Kansas City, Missouri, police Capt. Steve Young had said earlier that the pair had stopped assisting police in the investigation.
"I don't have to illustrate how that affects the investigation," Young said of the development. "It speaks for itself."
Young, who said "our door is always open" to the parents, told reporters that there are no suspects in the case.
Earlier Thursday, the parents told reporters about how they discovered Lisa to be missing.
"She's everything," Bradley said of Lisa. "She's our little girl. She's completed our family, and she means everything to my boys. We need her home. I can't be without her."
Irwin urged anyone with information to call police. "Anything, even the smallest information, could help lead to her return," he said.
Lisa Irwin was last seen around 10:30 p.m. Monday, asleep in her crib, police said. They were called to the home at about 4 a.m. Tuesday.
"It appears the suspect entered/exited through a bedroom window," authorities said in a statement. "Evidence at the scene leads police to believe the child has been abducted."
Jeremy Irwin told reporters that he found Lisa missing when he got home from work. "The front door was unlocked," he said Thursday. "Most of the lights were on in the house, and the window in front was open -- all very unusual."
The couple claimed three cell phones were missing at their home, Young said, but the information has not turned up anything.
Police have said the parents are not considered suspects in Lisa's disappearance. Young on Wednesday told reporters the family had been cooperative, but "everything is still on the table. We haven't ruled anything out."
He said then that investigators "really haven't developed any good, hard information that we can go forward with." Nearly 50 tips have been received through a hotline, he said, but not all of them have been pursued, as some of them have been vague -- a person calling to report a child seat seen in a car, for instance.
"I know everybody's hearts are in the right place, but that's not anything we can do anything with," Young said.
Police have conducted more than 300 "knock-and-talks" and searches of residences in the area, and more than 300 officers were searching for Lisa. There have been three searches of a wooded area near the family's home, he said.
"I promise you, if there's anything we think we can be doing, we've probably done it two or three times already," Young said.
An Amber Alert was issued for Lisa early Tuesday but has been canceled. "Although the investigation and search for Lisa Irwin continue, an active Amber Alert is no longer necessary in this case," police said.
However, Lisa is still considered missing and endangered, according to authorities.
Lisa is described as 30 inches tall with blue eyes and blond hair, police said. She weighs between 26 and 30 pounds. She was last seen wearing purple shorts and a purple shirt with white kittens on it. She has two bottom teeth, a small bug bite under her left ear and a "beauty mark" on her right outer thigh. She currently has a cold with a cough, police said.
