(EW.com) -- For Adam Sandler, movie comedy is rock & roll — not just a way to make people laugh, but a way to strike a pose of scruffy defiance.
At 45, he's still playing overgrown boy-men, but his characters these days aren't just emotionally stunted basket cases. They're jerks and rubes and loutish vulgarians, the more hideously unpresentable the better.
And since we've all grown used to seeing Sandler play these incorrigible idiots, in a sense he has to keep upping the ante. It's his equivalent of playing that power chord just a little bit louder.
Watching Sandler in "That's My Boy," his latest assault on subtlety, good taste, and other values that we critics like to trash the star for dumping on, I can't say that I laughed a lot (though when I did laugh, it was big and loud).
But on some level I marveled at the conviction that Adam Sandler pours into playing a character like Donny Berger, a boneheaded, loud-mouthed alcoholic loser from Boston. Wearing his hair in a greasy '80s shag, Sandler doesn't phone it in.
He delivers every single line with the unspeakably annoying rasp of a rusty nail scraping on your brainpan, and he gives Donny what is, in a sense, a full range of moods: angry, irritated, pushy, noodgy, grasping, wheedling, whining. A real charmer.
Just to make sure we know what kind of role model Donny is, hardly a scene goes by in which he doesn't have a Budweiser in his hand, and the vulgarities, too, spew out of him like beery foam.
A lot of actors, by now, have learned to do a Boston accent, but Sandler gets something else: the blinkered, bellowing high dudgeon of a certain kind of in-your-face leech whom you can still find hovering in Boston sports bars. He makes Donny the Joe Six-Pack from hell.
Long ago, Donny enjoyed a moment of tabloid infamy. Back in 1984, when he was just a teenager in gold chains, he got seduced by his sexpot high-school teacher, and when it came out that they were sleeping together, the scandal of it all made national headlines.
The teacher, sent to prison for statutory rape, even had Donny's baby, whom Donny named Han Solo and (once he turned 18) raised as a single parent.
But he was such a dismal father that his son disowned him. He also renamed himself Todd. As an adult, Todd is played by Andy Samberg as a persnickety hedge-fund manager about to be married to a stuck-up American princess (Leighton Meester).
And that, of course, is when Donny comes crashing back into his life.
"That's My Boy" is one of those comedies about a walking irritant, like What About Bob?, in which the joke — ultimately spun off from Green Acres — is that the mild, ordinary guy at the center of everything keeps trying to distance himself from the pest who has arrived to ruin his life, but everyone around him...adores the pest!
The more Donny disgraces himself, the more he makes the kind of cringe-worthy sexual jokes that Andrew Dice Clay would have turned up his nose at, the more everyone in Todd's circle thinks he's the life of the party. I only wish it were a fresher party.
Donny wins everyone over, for instance, by reviving ''Wassup!'' as a catch phrase. Seriously? That's what Sandler now regards as a mischievous joke?
Still, for a while, Andy Samberg makes a good squirmer. His Todd is so neurotically nice that he doesn't even experience his own exasperation, even as we see the steam coming out of his ears.
Where Sandler compromises his whole comedy-as-rock-&-roll thing is that he's so into making Donny a big teddy bear inside, a guy who just wants to bond with his son, that the movie starts to lose its edge.
It also stretches out far too long. (Did it really need to clock in at nearly two hours?)
Donny takes Todd and his friends out for a bachelor party, and it's on this voyage into the night that Todd begins to lose his inhibitions and get won over to the ways of excess — to the Donny Way. Big mistake! Lots of jokes about strippers and happy endings follow, and Todd gets so unhinged that he barfs all over his fiancée's wedding dress.
The movie was a lot funnier when Donny and Todd were foils.
Of course, never underestimate the importance of guy-on-guy sentimentality in the Adam Sandler universe. It's his way of making his fans feel as if he's high-fiving them, or maybe giving them a group hug.
But Sandler, bottom line, is too good at playing louts like Donny to spend this much energy getting us to like them. Grade: B-
See full story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
