(EW.com) -- Well, it's official: The Rock is making the move into television.
On Wednesday, TNT gave the greenlight to a new reality series starring none other than Dwayne Johnson. Tentatively titled "The Hero," the show will set about finding a "true hero" by pushing ten contestants to the brink (and beyond!) of their personal limits. The contenders will live together in a house and compete in various missions designed to "test their brains, their brawn and even their morality." (I'm thinking... "Big Brother" plus "The Expendables" minus 30 years.)
The network has ordered eight episodes, with Johnson set as host, mentor and motivator. The Fast Five star will also produce the series with his partner Dany Garcia and Ben Silverman's multimedia entertainment studio Electus.
"Dany and I couldn't be more excited to enter into our first official foray in TV production," said Johnson. " 'The Hero' speaks to everything I believe in when it comes to challenging ourselves, to becoming better people every day and to making the right choices while growing from the wrong ones."
Tom Cruise rep: Vanity Fair story 'false'
"Bridging the digital and physical world on the small screen in a way that's never been done before will enable fans to use social media and on-screen decision making to determine the fate of the show's contestants, and our goal is to make each TV moment impactful and exciting," Johnson continued.
Electus founder Silverman added: "The Rock is the embodiment of 'The Hero' and an inspirational superstar with an unwavering moral compass. 'The Hero' will deliver on his brand as an incredible action-filled series that test the limits of real people in extraordinary circumstances while also activating The Rock and Turner's audience with seamless digital and social media tie-ins."
David Letterman's Paul Ryan Top 10 list
Johnson can next be seen in "G.I. Joe: Retaliation," Michael Bay's "Pain & Gain" and the sixth installment of "The Fast and the Furious."
"The Hero" is scheduled to premiere in 2013.
See the full article at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
