Brad Pitt has a warning for his accused attacker, Vitalii Sediuk: "If he tries to look up a woman's dress again, he's going to get stomped."
That's what the actor said on Monday in a statement released to People magazine, referring to the former Ukrainian TV reporter who has had two recent run-ins with actors at red carpet events. On May 28, Sediuk jumped the rope on the red carpet at the "Maleficent" movie premiere and attacked Pitt. Earlier that month, Sediuk went after actress America Ferrera, jumping under her dress on the Cannes Film Festival red carpet.
That incident resulted in his being fired from his position with Ukrainian television channel 1+1, and Sediuk was later charged with one count of battery, one count of assault and two violations of the Los Angeles municipal code following his altercation with Pitt.
In his statement, Pitt gave his version of what happened between him and Sediuk as the actor strolled the red carpet in support of the film starring his partner, Angelina Jolie.
"I was at the end of the line signing autographs, when out the corner of my eye I saw someone stage-diving over the barrier at me," Pitt said in his statement. "I took a step back; this guy had latched onto my lapels. I looked down and the nutter was trying to bury his face in my crotch, so I cracked him twice in the back of the head -- not too hard -- but enough to get his attention, because he did let go. I think he was then just grabbing for a hand hold because the guys were on him, and he reached up and caught my glasses."
The "Benjamin Button" star went on to say that Sediuk's actions might influence how celebrities interact with the public in the future.
"I don't mind an exhibitionist," Pitt said, "but if this guy keeps it up he's going to spoil it for the fans who have waited up all night for an autograph or a selfie, because it will make (celebrities) more wary to approach a crowd."
Grammys stage-crasher reveals his entry plan
Will Smith on the red carpet slap heard 'round the world'
