A Saudi court that sentenced a journalist to 60 lashes for her work on a controversial television show has summoned a second woman affiliated with the TV station.
The Saudi information ministry said Sunday that a Jeddah court has asked the second journalist to appear because of her work as a coordinator with the Lebanese Broadcasting Corp.
The woman was set to appear on Monday, but the hearing has been postponed because she is ill, said a ministry official, who could not be named because he is not authorized to speak to the media.
The show in question, "A Thick Red Line," explores social taboos.
In one episode, a Saudi man, Mazen Abdul Jawad, bragged about his sex life. Saudi authorities put him on trial and sentenced him to five years in prison and 1,000 lashes.
Soon afterward, the court sentenced journalist Rosanna Al-Yami who worked as a coordinator and guest-booker for the show. In addition to the 60 lashes, Al-Yami is banned for two years from traveling outside Saudi Arabia.
While the charges against her include involvement in preparing the program, she was not involved in setting up the episode in which Abdul Jawad appeared, said his lawyer Suleiman Al-Jumeii.
Al-Jumeii said that Al-Yami has opted not to appeal the court's verdict.
Al-Jumeii doesn't represent the journalist, but said he is keeping tabs on cases dealing with "A Thick Red Line."
The lawyer is attempting to pursue an appeal for his client and get his case heard in a special court that only deals with media matters.
CNN has attempted to get comments from Al-Yami and her attorney.
Abdul Jawad, 32, an airline employee and divorced father of four, spoke openly on the show about his sexual escapades, his love of sex and losing his virginity at age 14.
That episode caused an uproar in deeply conservative Saudi Arabia, where sharia, or Islamic law, is practiced. Pre-marital sex is illegal, and unrelated men and women are not permitted to mingle.
Saudi authorities shut down LBC offices in Jeddah and Riyadh after the interview aired a few months ago.
Abdul Jawad was arrested shortly after the program aired and charged with violating Saudi Arabia's crime of publicizing vice.
