(CNN Student News) -- March 7, 2014
Could part of Ukraine secede from the rest of the country and become part of Russia? That question begins this Friday edition of CNN Student News, which also includes reports about North Korea, the Paralympics, and daylight-saving time. Get ready to spring forward this weekend (and to find out why we do it)!
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were a producer, what kinds of stories would you want to include in your coverage of the Paralympics? Why?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What is the capital of Ukraine?
2. What is the most populated state in the U.S.?
3. With what country has NASA teamed up to launch a new satellite that will track global precipitation?
4. What was the name of the first man-made satellite in orbit, launched in 1957?
5. What 1,100-mile dog sled race through Alaska is known as "the last great race"?
6. In what southern region of Ukraine are local government officials holding a referendum on possible secession?
7. What country, home to the world's second-largest economy, convened its National People's Congress this week?
8. What college entrance exam will undergo major changes, including a new top score of 1600, by the year 2016?
9. Which kind of civil time covers most of the calendar year for most Americans?
10. What nation reportedly fired a rocket whose trajectory was in the path of a Chinese passenger plane?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
