Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger says his star player Cesc Fabregas has taken on "another dimension" after the Spain midfielder was instrumental in the 6-0 thrashing of Braga in the Champions League.
Fabregas grabbed two goals and set up two others as the English side demolished their Portuguese opponents and gave notice of their intent to land the biggest prize in European club football for the first time.
After the 23-year-old helped Spain to their first ever World Cup win in South Africa, he was the subject of intense speculation over a move to Spanish champions Barcelona -- the club where he began his career.
But after his performance on Wednesday night, Wenger insisted Fabregas "loved" Arsenal and is still improving as a player. "He has taken on another dimension. People forget that he is 23 years old, [an age] where other people start," Wenger told the club's official website.
"He is a fantastic influence and it is important that he leads this team to winning and I believe it is a fantastic opportunity for the young players who play alongside him to improve as well.
"He loves this club. People doubted that but I never doubted that. He arrived here at the age of 16 and he enjoys the way we play and what more do you want than to be happy?"
Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho was equally pleased with his team's performance as they opened their Champions League campaign with a 2-0 home win over Dutch giants Ajax.
An own goal from Ajax defender Vurnon Anita and a tap in from Gonzalo Higuain secured victory for the Spanish club, though the Argentina striker and Portugal international Cristiano Ronaldo both squandered several chances.
Mourinho, who is aiming to become the first coach to win the Champions League with three different clubs, told Real Madrid's official website: "We played well. The team's physical and mental strength increases by playing. We can improve little by little. I need time, but I am very optimistic.
"Cristiano and Higuain were great tactically. We had dynamic offense and stayed well-balanced. That is what I need to work on. The goals will come. Some team is going to pay heavily for this lack of scoring and the scoreline is going to be huge.
"Cristiano can solve his scoring anxiety by one day not playing so well and scoring two or three goals. This happens a lot. You play and try your hardest, you build plays, you assist so that the team shines, but you can't score. It can happen, but the goals will come."
German champions and last year's beaten finalists Bayern Munich beat Roma 2-0 and coach Louis Van Gaal was pleased to eventually wear down his Italian opponents.
"We played very well in the circumstances," he told the club's website. "We let the ball do the work, in the first half as well as the second. But we didn't create many chances. However, we never let a very good opposing team get going, although they only came here to defend, which always makes it difficult.
"After 70 minutes, Roma stopped running, because they'd been chasing the ball all night. That's how we play it. The fans need to understand that we need time to run our opponents into the ground. We've scored two good goals, and we could have had two more in the final minutes."
