What would Christmas be without Zuzu's petals?
Although the Frank Capra film wasn't a huge hit when it arrived in theaters back in 1946, time and broadcast TV have turned "It's a Wonderful Life" into a holiday classic that warms our hearts and soothes our souls every year.
Look for Jimmy Stewart's unforgettable turn as hero, husband and family man, George Bailey, when NBC airs "It's a Wonderful Life" at 8 p.m. Saturday Dec. 3 and on Christmas Eve.
If you're looking for more modern fare or prefer the enchanting world of stop-motion animation, have no fear. There's something for everyone this holiday season from Rudolph to Justin Bieber.
"Jingle All the Way" (encore presentation 7:30 Friday Dec. 2, Hallmark Channel): Get into the spirit of the holiday with this adorable new stop-motion special which follows the magical tale of a Husky pup and the little boy who really wants to make him his own.
"A Michael Buble Christmas" (8 p.m. Tuesday, Dec. 6, NBC): The chart-topping crooner sings everyone's favorite holiday tunes from "Let It Snow" to "White Christmas."
"Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas" (7:30 p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 7, Cartoon Network; 8 p.m. Christmas Eve, ABC): This 1966 animated classic takes viewers inside the magical land of the Whos, a town full of folks who love Christmas with the exception of the Grinch (voiced wonderfully by the late Boris Karloff, who also narrates), an angry creature who loathes the holiday and does everything he can to sabotage it.
"National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation" (9 p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 7, ABC Family): Fill your holiday with giggles with the help of this silly holiday hit from 1989 starring Chevy Chase as bumbling patriarch Clark Griswold.
"The Year Without a Santa Claus" (9 p.m. Thursday Dec. 8 and 8 p.m. Christmas Eve, ABC Family): Travel back in time with the Heat Miser and Snow Miser song from this beloved 1974 stop-motion classic.
"Frosty the Snowman" (encore 8 p.m. Dec. 9, CBS): Everyone's snowy buddy conjures up the magic of Christmas for a whole new generation in this 42-year-old seasonal hit.
"Santa Claus is Comin' to Town" (7 p.m. Dec. 9 and Christmas Eve, ABC Family): This 1970 stop-motion treasure helps fans reminisce over the legend that is Santa Claus.
"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" (encore presentation 8 p.m. Dec. 10, CBS): Root for Santa's ninth and most memorable reindeer in this beloved 1964 Christmas hit narrated by the late, great Burl Ives.
"The Flight Before Christmas" (encore presentation 9 p.m. Dec, 10, CBS): This new animated special focuses on a young and ambitious reindeer and features the voice of actress Emma Roberts ("Valentine's Day").
"Christmas in Connecticut" (10 a.m. Dec. 11 and 10 p.m. Dec. 16, TCM): The incomparable Barbara Stanwyck stars in this 1945 treasure about a domestically challenged woman who must provide a holiday feast for a war hero.
"12 Dates of Christmas" (8 p.m. Dec. 11, ABC Family): Amy Smart ("Just Friends") stars in this made-for-TV movie about a young woman who has to relive the same first date on Christmas Eve until she learns to open her heart and mind. Mark-Paul Gosselaar ("Saved by the Bell" and "Franklin & Bash") also stars.
"The Simpsons" (8 p.m. Dec. 11, Fox): Check out this new Christmas-themed installment that finds the Simpsons family 30 years in the future. Fox will also air new holiday-inspired episodes of "The Cleveland Show," "Family Guy" and "American Dad" that night.
"I Want a Dog for Christmas, Charlie Brown!" (8 p.m. Dec. 12 and 22, ABC): This 2003 holiday special centers on ReRun, the lovable younger brother of Linus and Lucy.
"Christmas in Washington" (8 p.m. Dec. 16, TNT): Late-night talk show host Conan O'Brien is the master of ceremonies for this star-studded concert featuring Justin Bieber, Cee Lo Green and Jennifer Hudson. The annual holiday special benefits the Children's National Medical Center.
"Annie Claus is Coming to Town" (encore presentations 2 p.m. Dec. 17 and 8 p.m. Dec. 20, Hallmark Channel): Santa's daughter Annie (Maria Thayer) leaves the North Pole in search of adventure in Los Angeles and winds up falling in love. Vivica A. Fox and Sam Page ("Mad Men") also star.
"A Christmas Story" (24-hour marathon, 8 p.m. Christmas Eve to 8 p.m. Christmas Day, TBS): All Ralphie (Peter Billingsley) wants for Christmas is a Red Ryder BB gun and all fans of this delightful 1983 flick want is to laugh at the holiday misadventures of Ralphie and his family and friends.
