President Barack Obama's commission investigating last year's oil disaster is giving environmental groups hope that some change is on the horizon, but not the full scope of what they're looking for, two groups told CNN Thursday.
"If you take the findings to heart, you wouldn't start drilling again," said Kert Davies, research director with Greenpeace.
On Wednesday, the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling released a chapter of its coming report, saying "systemic" problems caused the blowout and that only "significant reform" would prevent another.
"The Macondo blowout was the product of several individual missteps and oversights by BP, Halliburton, and Transocean, which government regulators lacked the authority, the necessary resources, and the technical expertise to prevent," the report says. Macondo was the name of the well. BP, Halliburton and Transocean all were involved in the drilling operation.
Greenpeace and the Sierra Club told CNN there were no surprises in the released chapter.
"It kind of confirms our worst fears that we've had about the oil industry all along -- that they cut corners where they can," said Athan Manuel, director of lands protection with the Sierra Club. "And that sometimes threatens the safety and operation of their rigs."
Manuel said he believes the president will take the commission's findings seriously. "Administratively, we're confident that the Obama administration will change the way oil companies do business in the Gulf."
But, he said, his group is not holding out hope for major legislative change. "I imagine that the Republicans in charge of the Natural Resources Committee, and now the new speaker, don't want to see any new restrictions on the oil industry," he said.
Greenpeace's Davies said the chapter released "puts an exclamation point on the fact that the corporations were at fault," though he noted that a lack of government oversight also is to blame.
"What we hope is that the commission's recommendations are taken to heart by the president," he said.
But Davies added, "We don't have very high hopes for the reforms that should happen -- a massive overhaul of the regulatory apparatus and oversight."
"Ultimately," he said, "I think the oil industry will succeed in blocking things like that."
The group Ocean Conservancy also weighed in with a statement, saying the early draft indicates the commission "will recommend important reforms." The group added, "We now look to the government and industry to step up to the plate."
The American Petroleum Institute, the main group representing the oil industry, told CNN Thursday it did not yet have a response to the chapter released by the commission.
Halliburton issued a response, accusing the commission of having "selectively omitted information we provided to them." The company also disagreed with certain specifics, saying the report mischaracterized foam stability tests.
Transocean issued a statement saying its crew had taken "appropriate actions to gain control of the well. They were well trained and considered to be among the best in the business."
BP spokesman Robert Sholars said Wednesday the oil giant "has cooperated fully with the commission's investigation," stressing that "the accident was the result of multiple causes, involving multiple companies."
"BP is working with regulators and the industry to ensure that the lessons learned from Macondo lead to improvements in operations and contractor services in deepwater drilling," Sholars said.
The U.S. Department of the Interior said it, too, is already implementing reforms.
"The agency has taken unprecedented steps and will continue to make the changes necessary to restore the American people's confidence in the safety and environmental soundness of oil and gas drilling and production on the Outer Continental Shelf, while balancing our nation's important energy needs," spokeswoman Kendra Barkoff said.
