Ugandan opposition leader Kizza Besigye was barred from  boarding a flight back home on Wednesday from the Kenyan capital, where he was undergoing treatment, an airline official said.
Besigye flew to Nairobi for treatment two weeks ago after he was injured when police pulled him from a vehicle during protests over the rising cost of living in Uganda.
The opposition leader said he was traveling with his wife and aide, and had their boarding passes when a Kenya Airways manager told them that there were instructions not to allow them to board.
"We refused to allow him to board because our intelligence advised us that it would not be safe to do so," said Chris Karanja, a corporate affairs manager at Kenya Airways.
Karanja did not offer any additional details.
It was not immediately clear where the order came from or why the action was taken.
Besigye said airline officials told him the plane would not be allowed to land In Entebbe, Uganda, with him onboard.
His party officials said the Ugandan minister of internal security denied that the government issued the directive.
"This is an example of the ongoing frustrations, concerns and  violations of rights by the Uganda government," Besigye said.
"It is the right of every  Ugandan to be able to return home at anytime. The government does not  respect the rule of law."
Besigye has been thrown in jail several times for spearheading "walk-to-work" protests,  contending that the government is manipulating prices for fuel and commodities.
Authorities in the east African nation had warned protesters that the gatherings are unlawful and participants will be prosecuted.
Despite being held in Kenya, protests will proceed, according to Besigye.
"The walk-to-pray scheduled for tomorrow would still go on even if I'm not in the country. It's not dependent on me," he said. "There are Ugandans and activists in the country who want to advance their rights."
A Ugandan government spokesman did not answer calls for comment.
President Yoweri Museveni is scheduled to be sworn in for a new term following his re-election in February.
Besigye, who heads the Forum for Democratic  Change party, was the leading opposition candidate.
