(Oprah.com) -- Save the heavy stuff for later: Keeping skin hydrated is key (especially when you're in the air), but slathering on your heaviest cream can leave your face looking oily. Try a gel-based moisturizer (celebrity makeup artist Daniel Martin likes aloe vera gel) that absorbs and dries quickly.
To even your complexion when you're in a hurry, apply a stripe of stick concealer down the bridge of your nose and across your cheekbones, forehead and chin. Then blend all over with a bit of light lotion for sheer coverage.
Tone down a breakout: You know what a few squirts of Visine can do after a red-eye, but it also works on that blemish on your forehead.
Apply a couple of drops to a cotton swab or hold the tip of the bottle directly on the pimple for a few seconds to quickly cut redness, says Martin. Then dab the area with a tissue to absorb residual moisture.
If you still need more coverage, apply a light layer of concealer and gently press with a clean tissue to set it.
Oprah.com: 9 beauty treats under a buck
Stick to cream makeup: If you're putting on makeup in a dim airplane bathroom, stick with creams, which are more difficult to overdo because they melt into skin -- unlike powders, which require more blending and are less forgiving, says Martin.
Plus, you don't need an arsenal of brushes to apply. CoverGirl NatureLuxe Gloss Balm, $6, is one of his favorites because the sheer, shea-butter formula can be used on lips and cheeks and the small size makes it easy to fit in your purse for quick touch-ups.
If you can't part with your powder blush or bronzer, use a smaller brush to give you more control and prevent color from splattering on your shirt collar, says Rebecca Creer, who covered the globe from Nigeria to Japan doing everything from manicures to massages as an in-flight beauty therapist (and currently dispenses tips and picks up new ones from flight attendants and crew members as the spas and grooming manager for Virgin Atlantic Airways).
Try BareMinerals Retractable Flawless Application Brush, $30, which comes with a protective cover so bristles don't get crushed in your carry-on.
Oprah.com: Packing secrets from travel pros
Help makeup work overtime: Long-wear lipsticks are particularly enticing if you don't have time to constantly reapply, but Martin says these formulas leave little room for mistakes and can often be drying.
To get staying power without sacrificing hydration, try Creer's go-to trick: Apply a light layer of foundation or concealer to lips, fill them in with lip liner, then swipe lipstick over the top. Extend the life of your blush and eyeshadow by dusting translucent powder over your face and lids first.
"It provides an adhesive surface for pigment and prevents streaks," says Martin.
Oprah.com: The lazy woman's guide to fabulous hair
Hide dark circles in a hurry: Neutralize blue tones by applying an apricot colored concealer or primer (like Koh Gen Do Foundation Color Corrector in Dark Apricot, $34).
And use a light eyeshadow that won't emphasize darkness or highlight fine lines, like a shimmer-free bone shade. But if puffiness is your problem, putting coverup on top can reflect light and make your undereye area look more pronounced.
Martin says it's better to apply a concealer that matches your skin tone to the inner corners of your eyes and buff it out along the sockets with your ring finger. To look more awake, add a coat of mascara to your top lashes only, wiggling it into the roots and rolling out to the ends.
Be careful not to pump the wand in the tube -- this causes mascara to dry out more quickly, says Creer.
Fix a smudge -- fast: Martin says applying a creamy concealer with your finger will break down the pigment and blend it out -- so much easier than washing off a mascara flub and starting over.
Oprah.com: 5 facial masks that repair tired skin in no time
Apply liner on the move: Add a swipe of eyeliner across your upper lashes to define and perk up tired eyes. For a steadier hand and smoother line, rest your pinkie on the tip of your nose, says Martin.
Stop static in seconds: Friction caused by rubbing hair against the headrest during a flight or a lengthy commute can wreak havoc on your blow-out. To get frizz under control, massage a pea-size drop of hand cream into your palms and lightly run them over your hair.
For extra holding power, warm a bit of clear lip balm between your fingertips and slick it over any flyaways.
Oprah.com: 7 things never to wear to the airport
Subscribe to O, The Oprah Magazine for up to 75% off the newsstand price. That's like getting 18 issues FREE. 
Subscribe now!
TM & © 2011 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
