(CNN Student News) -- May 28, 2014
Think fast: Who made the first solo flight around the world? In today's show, you'll hear the answer, and you'll also hear about who's vying for the record of youngest pilot in the category! We also cover news concerning U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan, a debate surrounding school lunches, and the use of airplanes in tracking crime suspects.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What points do you think should be addressed when producing a story about a debate over a controversial law?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. combat mission
2. surveillance
3. visually impaired
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. About how many U.S. troops are currently deployed in Afghanistan? About how many did President Obama say will be there next year? How will the role of the remaining troops change? What condition has to be met in order for some U.S. troops to stay in the country? How did some Republicans respond regarding the president's announcement about U.S. troops in Afghanistan?
2. What was the goal of the child nutrition law that was passed in 2010? What did the law require schools and students to do? According to the video: Who is a major supporter of this law? Why do some people want the law changed?
3. According to the video: How does the company in the video use planes to help law enforcement? What does the Dayton, Ohio police chief say about this technology? Why are some critical of it? How does the company respond?
4. Who is Matt Guthmiller? If he meets his goal, what distinction will he add to this accomplishment? How long does he think this flight will take? How does he plan to keep in touch with people along the way? What does he hope his trip will do for other young people?
5. What is beep kickball? For whom was the game created? What equipment is part of this game? Why do its players wear blindfolds? What do students, parents and teachers in the video have to say about the game?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion of President Obama's military strategy in Afghanistan? Do you agree or disagree with the decision to keep about 10,000 U.S. troops there to help train the country's security forces? State your rationale.
2. Do you think that federal laws are effective in encouraging students to eat healthier meals? Why or why not? Who do you think is ultimately responsible for the food choices that students should make: the government, the school, parents or the students themselves?
3. Do you think that what Matt Guthmiller is attempting to do is inspirational? Why or why not? Have you ever been inspired by the achievement of another young person? Explain. How did that achievement impact what you thought about your own potential?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
