Former Germany coach Jurgen Klinsmann made his first public appearance as coach of the U.S. men's soccer team, and immediately vowed to bring some style to the job.
Klinsmann, who won the 1990 World Cup as a player and took the German national team to the semi-finals of the 2006 tournament, was announced as Bob Bradley's replacement on Friday, 24-hours after the American was sacked.
Monday saw the former striker, who enjoyed successful spells as a player at Tottenham Hotspur, Bayern Munich and Inter Milan, face the press for the first time as he set out his agenda for the national team.
"This is exciting," he told reporters.
"One of my challenges will be to find a way to define how the U.S. represents its country and its style of play."
As well as defining a new style for the U.S. national team, Klinsmann promised to look far and wide to uncover new talent, delving into America's soccer-crazy immigrant communities to unearth an American Lionel Messi.
"We need to dig into where to find more talent," he said.
"Maybe we can find somebody kicking the ball around the street and develop him, but this will come with time. I hope we find a way to find a Lionel Messi in the United States. That would be awesome."
Klinsmann is no stranger to the country. The 47-year-old, who lives in California and has an American wife, was linked to the post on two previous occasions and has seen U.S. soccer grow up fast in recent years.
"You build on what was built before. Soccer in the USA has come a long way," he said.
"The awareness is getting bigger and bigger. It's growing. You can't stop soccer any more in the country...It's amazing to talk to foreign coaches about what's happened in the USA. They admire how far soccer has come."
The new coach won't have long to get settled in to the job. His first match in charge will be a friendly against rivals Mexico on August 10.
The two last faced each other at the CONCACAF Gold Cup final in June. Despite going into a 2-0 lead, the U.S. lost 4-2. It was Bradley's last match as coach.
"I know already most of the players from watching them," Klinsmann said.
"I spoke to five or six players over the weekend and I will call the rest tomorrow."
