Gautam Gambhir became the most expensive signing in world cricket on a record-breaking first day of the Indian Premier League auctions.
The Kolkata Knights Riders paid $2.4 million to secure the rights of the India international batsman on Saturday, and then stumped up $2.1 million to buy Yusuf Pathan for the next two years of the lucrative Twenty20 limited-overs competition.
New franchise Sahara Pune Warriors matched that sum with the signing of another Indian star, Robin Uthappa, while Mumbai Indians put up $2 million for Rohit Sharma.
Pathan's half-brother Irfan was sold to Delhi Daredevils for $1.9 million, while Pune also paid $1.8 million for one-day specialist Yuvraj Singh.
The most expensive non-Indian player was Sri Lanka's Mahela Jayawardene, who went to another new franchise, Kochi, for $1.5 million. Australia's David Hussey was bought for $1.4 million by Kings XI Punjab.
See the full list of successful bids
Kolkata also signed veteran South Africa batsman Jacques Kallis for $1.2 million, while Royal Challengers Bangalore bid $1.1 million for his compatriot A.B. de Villiers -- a fee matched by Deccan Chargers for Australia's Cameron White.
The auction concluded on Sunday, with 350 of the world's top players having gone under the hammer. Franchise owners include Bollywood stars Shilpa Shetty and Preity Zinta.
Notably absent was tournament founder Lalit Modi, who has been ousted from his position as chairman by the Indian cricket board amid allegations of corruption.
Will Australia's one-day cricket reign end in 2011?
Only 12 players were retained from last year's competition, with Mumbai keeping Sachin Tendulkar, Harbhajan Singh, Kieron Pollard and Lasith Malinga.
India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni will stay with defending champions Chennai Super Kings, while Rajasthan have kept Australia's Shane Warne and Shane Watson, and Virender Sehwag remains at Delhi.
Kings XI Punjab, Deccan Chargers and Kolkata Knight Riders completely emptied their playing rosters.
The 2011 tournament will run from April 8 to May 22 following the 50-over World Cup in India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.
