LOS ANGELES, California (CNN)  -- One of two doctors charged with conspiring to furnish drugs to Anna Nicole Smith before her fatal overdose in 2007 surrendered to authorities and was jailed Monday, authorities said.
Anna Nicole Smith's boyfriend Howard K. Stern was among those charged last week.
Dr. Khristine Eroshevich surrendered at the Van Nuys, California, jail, said police and jail officials. Bail was set at $20,000, but Eroshevich had not posted bail as of Monday afternoon.
Eroshevich was charged last week along with Howard K. Stern, Smith's longtime partner and attorney; and Dr. Sandeep Kapoor. Stern and Kapoor were arrested and released from a Los Angeles County jail Thursday night after each posted a $20,000 bond.
All three are charged with eight felonies, including conspiring to furnish controlled substances, unlawfully prescribing a controlled substance and obtaining fraudulent prescriptions from June 2004 through January 2007, only weeks before Smith's death. Kapoor and Eroshevich were also charged with obtaining a prescription for opiates by "fraud, deceit or misrepresentation." And each was charged with one count of obtaining a prescription for opiates by giving a false name or address, prosecutors said.
"Anna was the center of a cruel tabloid feeding frenzy," Eroshevich's attorney, Adam Braun, told CNN in a statement Monday. "In the face of this, Dr. Eroshevich did her best to help the patient while protecting what little privacy Anna had left. Any actions were done with the patient's well-being in mind and were certainly not criminal."
California Attorney General Jerry Brown said the doctors and Stern devised a plan to use fake names so Smith could be prescribed "thousands of pills." The former Playboy playmate and reality TV star was drugged "almost to the point of stupefaction," Brown said.
"The quantity of the drugs, the variety of the drugs, the combination at any given point, and her continuing to use that -- that, to a professional, is clear evidence of addiction," Brown said Friday. "These cocktails of methadone and antidepressants and sleeping pills and Xanax, you put all that into a cocktail, it explodes and can cause death, injury and permanent morbidity and disability."
Brown said Stern was the "principal enabler" in a conspiracy with two doctors for giving the "known addict" thousands of prescription pills.
Stern's attorney Krista Barth said on CNN's "Larry King Live" on Friday night that she thought Brown's comments were prejudicial.
"I don't think that this was something that should have been stated in a public forum," Barth said. "I think it's contrary to the rules of professional conduct regarding trial publicity. And you have to wonder why such a statement was made."
Smith, 39, was pronounced dead February 8, 2007, after being found unconscious in her hotel room at the Seminole Hard Rock Hotel and Casino near Hollywood, Florida. A coroner said she died from an accidental overdose of prescription drugs.
Officials said that both prescription and over-the-counter drugs were found in Smith's system, including three antidepressant or anti-anxiety drugs. Human growth hormone and chloral hydrate, a sleep medication, were also found in toxicology tests, officials said.
CNN's Marc Balinsky contributed to this report.
