(CNN Student News) -- March 6, 2014
Thousands of Chinese legislators convene in Beijing, but they're not expected to vote on any major laws. We'll explain why in this Thursday edition of CNN Student News. Also covered today: An asteroid comes within the moon's distance to Earth, the College Board overhauls the SAT, and a California couple finds a pot of gold.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day: How might media coverage affect someone who discovers treasure? Why might some want this coverage and some want to avoid it?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. National People's Congress
2. SAT
3. aurum
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What kind of government does China have? What is the purpose of the annual meeting of the National People's Congress? Why are international economists interested in this event?
2. How close did an asteroid recently pass by Earth? How large was the asteroid? How many asteroids have scientists discovered this year? What were the chances of this asteroid actually hitting Earth?
3. How many gold coins were recently found by a California couple? What is the estimated value of these coins? What theory was presented with regard to why these coins were left behind? What is the most likely reason why these coins were left?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion of college entrance exams? Are you planning to take the SAT? Why or why not? Do you think that changes are needed to the test? What is your opinion about College Board's planned changes to the exam? What possible pros and cons could these changes bring? How might the timing of these changes affect some students?
2. What action would you take if you were to discover gold near your home? What options do you think were available to a California couple who found a pot of gold? Why do you think they chose to remain anonymous? Can you think of any drawbacks of doing so? Explain.
3. How would you describe Louis Corbett's attitude? How might his attendance of a Boston Celtics game affect him, the team, and the people who helped him get to Boston? What do you think Louis will remember most about this experience? How do you think his family will meet the challenges that lie ahead of it?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
