Spanish Primera Liga big-spenders Real Madrid have pruned their squad after their summer transfer splurge by completing the sales of Dutchmen Arjen Robben to Bayern Munich and Wesley Sneijder to Inter Milan.
Arjen Robben (left) meets his new coach Louis van Gaal after completing his move to Bayern Munich.
Robben, 25, has moved to the Bundesliga for an undisclosed fee on a four-year contract, while Sneijder has joined the Italian Serie A champions also on a four-year contract for a reported 15 million euros ($22m). Both players will wear the number 10 jerseys for their new clubs.
Robben could make his debut in Saturday's mouth-watering clash with German champions Wolfsburg, with Bayern coach Louis van Gaal telling the club's official Web site: "I am very happy to have another creative player. Arjen is a very explosive player."
Robben said Bayern had "given me a good feeling" from the moment they first signalled their interest in signing him.
"I feel very welcome here," he told the club's Web site. "This is a big club with a great history and I am delighted to be here now."
Robben's chances of being a regular in Real's star-studded side appeared to have reduced when Cristiano Ronaldo and Kaka were both signed this summer, but the former Chelsea winger still seemed keen to stay at the Bernabeu.
That was until Bayern firmed up their interest and offered him the opportunity to play on a more regular basis.
"Everything went so quickly," he revealed. "There were a few things that I had to consider and in the end I decided that I would like to transfer to a big club like FC Bayern."
While, Bayern were parading their new signing, Sneijder, also 25, was being introduced to the Italian media after finalizing his move
Sneijder joined Madrid in 2007 after five years with Ajax, and in his first season in Spain helped his new club win the Primera Division title.
The two Dutchmen are the latest in a long line of players to leave Madrid this summer in the wake of the club's phenomenal spending spree that has seen them splash out over 250 million euros ($357m) on players such as Ronaldo, Kaka, Karim Benzema and Xavi Alonso.
Aside from Sneijder and Robben, fellow-Dutchman Klaas Jan Huntelaar has been sold to AC Milan, Alvaro Negredo has joined Sevilla, while the likes of Javier Saviola, Michel Salgado, Gabriel Heinze, Fabio Cannavaro and Javi Garcia have also bid farewell to Madrid this summer.
Meanwhile, it has been another busy day of transfer activity in the English Premier League with plenty of deals going through.
Everton have completed the signing of Portsmouth defender Sylvain Distin on a three-year deal for an undisclosed fee.
The 31-year-old Frenchman will replace Joleon Lescott in the center of the Merseyside club's defence, following the England international's protracted sale to Manchester City.
Meanwhile, Portsmouth, who have seen a host of top players leave this summer culminating in Distin's exit, have gone some way to restoring the depth of their squad by bringing in a remarkable four players on a hectic day at Fratton Park.
Midfielder Michael Brown, 32, has joined from Wigan for an undisclosed fee while two players have joined on loan; Tottenham midfielder Jamie O'Hara and Ivorian striker Aruna Dindane from Lens with a view to a permanent move.
Meanwhile, O'Hara's Tottenham team-mate Kevin-Prince Boateng -- who spent last season on loan at Borussia Dortmund -- has also joined Portsmouth on a three-year contract for a fee of $6.5m.
The 22-year-old German midfielder has failed to establish himself at White Hart Lane since joining from Hertha Berlin in 2007.
Sunderland have completed their sixth signing of the summer with the capture of Lyon's Ghanaian international defender John Mensah on a season-long loan with a view to a permanent deal.
Elsewhere, West Ham have completed the signing of highly-rated striker Alessandro Diamanti from Serie A side Livorno for an undisclosed fee.
Diamanti, 26, has penned a five-year contract at Upton Park after agreeing personal terms and passing a medical -- while Stoke have completed the signing of Turkish international striker Tuncay Sanli from Middlesbrough, the day after swooping for German defender Roberth Huth from the same club.
In other transfer news, striker Vagner Love has joined former club Palmeiras on loan from CSKA Moscow until summer 2010.
The 25-year-old Brazilian joined CSKA from Palmeiras in 2004 and established himself as a firm favorite in the Russian capital -- scoring 61 goals in 118 appearances, winning two Russian titles and a UEFA Cup winners' medal in the process.
