At least one performer fell hard for Sunday night's Billboard Music Awards.
Not sure what that means? Well, check out the top five moments from Sunday night's 2013 Billboard Music Awards:
1. Miguel lands on a fan
The R & B singer accidentally landed on a woman in the mosh pit during a performance of his hit song "Adorn." He was attempting a jump that went wrong. The fan appeared to be fine and the singer kept singing. Miguel later tweeted: "got caught up in the moment, thank goodness Khyati is okay."
2. Taylor Swift wins eight out of the 11 awards she was up for
Swift is no stranger to taking to the stage to accept accolades, and on Sunday night she collected a few, including Billboard Artist of the Year.
"My album is kind of on the ends of the intense emotional spectrum," Swift said while accepting that award. "You (fans) are the longest and best relationship I have ever had."
She also won Top Country Artist,Top Billboard 200 Artist, Top Female Artist, and Top Digital Songs Artist -- the last one a tie with singer Carly Rae Jepsen. Swift's album "Red" won in the Top Billboard 200 and Country Album categories and her single "We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together" collected the trophy for Top Country Song.
3. Justin Bieber gets booed
While accepting the first ever Milestone Award, the Biebs was both cheered and jeered. He appeared to reference the rough times he has had of late in his acceptance speech.
"I'm 19 years old, I think I'm doing a pretty good job," Bieber said. "And basically from my heart I really just want to say it should really be about the music ... the craft. ... This is not a gimmick, I'm an artist and I should be taken seriously and all this other bull should not be spoken of."
The incident caused the show's host, Tracy Morgan, to quip, "Hey, don't be booing anybody here. This ain't no high school."
4. Nicki Minaj twerks on Lil Wayne
Since this is a family website, we won't explain "twerking," but let's just say Minaj has a little something in common with Miley Cyrus when it comes to the seductive dance.
During a performance of her song "High School," Minaj gave rapper Lil Wayne (who appears on the track) a lap dance. Taking a break from her "American Idol" judging duties, the rap songstress received the first award of the night, Top Rap Artist.
5. Prince shows them how it is done
By far one of the best moments of the night came courtesy of a man who hasn't even been on the charts in a while.
Prince took to the stage with a new look and celebrated being presented with the Icon Award with a medley of his hits "Let's Go Crazy" and "FixUrLifeUp." He appeared to be channeling Jimi Hendrix with his Afro and wicked guitar riffs while being backed by an all-female band.
The crowd took his advice and did, indeed, go crazy.
In addition to Swift, Rihanna and Gotye were also big winners of the evening. Visit Billboard.com for a complete list of winners.
