An Australian teen was sentenced to two months in prison in Indonesia for marijuana use in a case that has drawn international attention.
The sentence includes time already served so he is scheduled to be released on December 4, local prosecutors said Friday.
He will leave Indonesia after this release and will be blacklisted from re-entering the nation for six months, Prosecutor Gusti Gede Putu Atmaja said.
The teen had been moved to an immigration detention center from the police headquarters in late October. It was unclear where he will serve his detention.
The 14-year old, whose name was not publicly released, has been held since his arrest last month in Bali while on holiday with his parents.
The boy's attorney, Mohammad Rifan, said last month he hoped to avoid a prison sentence for his client and have him released to undergo drug rehabilitation.
Indonesia's drug laws are among the strictest in the world. But they have a provision, article 128, under which those arrested with small amounts of drugs can be released to rehabilitation if they can prove they are an addict. In the case of underage offenders, that requires a declaration from the youth's parents, officials have said.
A spokesman for Indonesia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said last month that the nation's policy on drug offenses is clear.
"I believe everybody should know by now that illegal drugs in Indonesia will face a really severe penalty," Michael Tene said.
The case has drawn international attention, prompting Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard to speak to the teenager on the phone, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. said last month. Gillard's office told the network that she offered reassurance to the youth.
Visitors to the country are warned, upon arrival, that some drug crimes carry a maximum penalty of death.
Still, many have been arrested and convicted for various drug offenses. Two Australians are on death row in a Bali prison while six others are serving life sentences.
Journalist Meidyana Rayana contributed to this report
