Michael Jackson's oldest son launched his showbiz career this week with a gig as a guest correspondent for "Entertainment Tonight," a job his aunt La Toya Jackson arranged.
The first assignment for Prince Michael Jackson, who celebrated his 16th birthday last Wednesday, was an interview with actors James Franco, Zach Braff and director Sam Raimi about their remake of "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz."
"I'm looking to become well-rounded as a producer, director, screenwriter and actor," Prince Jackson told ET's Brooke Anderson, who coached him on interviewing techniques.
Michael Jackson's sister La Toya was "very instrumental" in setting up the job, a source close to her told CNN.
"Prince came to her and asked for her help in starting his career," said the source, who was not authorized to talk to the media.
La Toya, who owns an entertainment company, "was like an onset mom!" during the shoot, the source said. "She was so caring, making sure he looked great, going over his script with him, and just (being) there for him 1000%, coaching him for each day he worked."
ET will broadcast clips from the interview throughout this week.
Michael Jackson's three children -- Prince, Paris and Blanket -- were kept out of public view until they appeared at his memorial service, when Jackson died in 2009.
Family, fans mark Michael Jackson's death three years later
Since then, Prince has made public appearances, including at events to honor his father.
In February 2010, at the age of 12, Prince Jackson accepted a Grammy for lifetime achievement on behalf of the iconic entertainer. In the fall of the following year, he autographed replicas of Michael Jackson's "Beat It" and "Thriller" leather jackets for a special sale on Amazon.com.
Though he will inherit millions from his father's estate, he is determined to make his own money, a lawyer for the Jackson family has said.
He wants to do it all, Prince Jackson told Anderson. But he has said that he can't sing or dance like his father.
Revisit Jacksons' most animated performance
CNN's Alan Duke reported from Los Angeles; Ben Brumfield from Atlanta.
