The biggest surprise on a busy night of international football on Wednesday came in Duesseldorf, where Euro 2008 finalists Germany were beaten by Norway for the first time in 73 years.
Norway players celebrate Christian Grindheim's (No.16) goal in their shock victory over Germany.
Midfielder Christian Grindheim scored from close-range, from Morten Gamst Pedersen's cross, in the 63rd minute to give the visitors a 1-0 victory to stun the 45,000 home supporters on a freezing evening.
Not since the 1936 Olympics in Berlin had Germany lost to Norway --the defeat even more suprising as Germany coach Joachim Loew had the luxury of naming a full-strength side, while new Norway coach Egil Olsen was missing seven key players.
In Marseille, Lionel Messi scored a brilliant solo goal to give Argentina a 2-0 win over France and give Diego Maradona a second straight win as national coach.
The Barcelona striker collected the ball outside the penalty area and ran right through the home defense before expertly slotting the ball past goalkeeper Steve Mandanda.
Newcastle winger Jonas Gutierrez had opened the scoring four minutes before the interval with a shot that went inside Mandanda's left-hand post.
Meanwhile, Jamel Saihi scored a second-half equalizer to give home side Tunisia a 1-1 draw with the Netherlands in Rades.
Montpellier star Saihi netted midway through the second-half with a long-range shot that Dutch goalkeeper Maarten Stekelenburg should have saved.
Klaas Jan Huntelaar has given the visitors the lead in the 62nd minute when converting his 11th goal in 19 internationals, after Joris Mathijsen had headed down a long ball from Stijn Schaars.
Elsewhere, Arsenal striker Eduardo da Silva returned to action for the first time since breaking his leg 12 months ago -- helping Croatia to a 2-1 victory over Romania in Bucharest.
Eduardo, who  fractured his left fibula and dislocated his ankle against Birmingham in February 2008, replaced Ivica Olic in the 61st minute and set up Niko Kranjcar for a 75th-minute winner.
Ciprian Marica gave Romania the lead in the 22nd minute but the visitors levelled just six minutes later when Ivan Rakitic scored with a superb long-range free-kick.
Unsettled Chelsea striker Didier Drogba scored an injury-time equalizer to give Ivory Coast a 1-1 draw with Turkey in Izmir.
Drogba, who has been out of favor for his club side this season, tapped in a cross from the right in the second minute of injury time in his first match for his country in over a year.
Gokhan Unal put the European 2008 semifinalists ahead in the 11th minute with a shot into the top right-hand corner of the net.
World Cup host nation South Africa's run of five consecutive victories came to an end when they were beaten 2-0 by Chile in Polokwane.
