Liverpool's Uruguayan striker Luis Suarez has been charged by the English Football Association (FA) with making racist remarks towards a fellow player.
Suarez has been accused of aiming racial taunts at Manchester United's French defender Patrice Evra during a match in the English Premier League last month.
He denies the charges and has vowed to clear his name.
A statement on the FA's web site read: "It is alleged that Suarez used abusive and/or insulting words and/or behavior towards Manchester United's Patrice Evra contrary to FA rules," the association said in a statement.
Blatter: No on-field racism in football
"It is further alleged that this included a reference to the ethnic origin and/or color and/or race of Patrice Evra."
The FA has taken over a month to charge Suarez and they are also investigating allegations of racism by Chelsea and England captain John Terry towards a fellow player in a separate incident.
CNN Blog: How should football tackle racism?
London's Metropolitan police have also launched a probe after Terry was accused of racially abusing Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand. Terry denies the claims.
Liverpool said they had been informed of the charge against Suarez by the FA and planned to review the documentation.
"We will discuss the matter fully with him when he returns from international duty, but he will plead not guilty to the charge and we expect him to request a personal hearing," the club said in a statement.
"Luis remains determined to clear his name of the allegation made against him by Patrice Evra."
Suarez's charge comes on the day that FIFA president Sepp Blatter claimed there is not a problem with player-on-player racism within football.
Speaking to CNN World Sport, the head of soccer's world governing body suggested any player who is abused during a game should shake hands with their opponent upon the final whistle and move on.
He later moved to clarify his comments, stating he was "committed to fighting this plague and kicking it out of football."
