(CNN)  -- Defending champions Germany were sent tumbling to a stunning 1-0 extra-time defeat by outsiders Japan in the women's World Cup Saturday.
Japan had never beaten a European team and went into the quarterfinal in Wolfsburg as long-odds outsiders.
But the hosts, roared on by a capacity and partisan crowd, could not press home their territorial advantage and grew increasingly frustrated.
The winning goal came in the 108th minute as Japan captain Homare Sawa sent away substitute Karina Maruyama who scored with a brilliantly angled shot past Germany goalkeeper Nadine Angerer.
The home side strained every sinew for an equalizer to force penalties, but came up short.
It was the two-time defending champions first defeat in the competition since 1999, having won 14 of their previous 15 matches.
Japan will now face either Australia or Sweden, who meet on Sunday, for a place in the final.
Earlier, France won a dramatic penalty shootout against England to reach the semifinals of the global competition for the first time.
The talented French team will play either Brazil or the United States in the semifinals.
The match in Leverkusen ended 1-1 after extra-time but the French were deserved winners after dominating the latter stages of the match with superior technique and passing ability.
Jill Scott put England ahead just before the hour mark and they looked headed for the last four until the excellent Elise Bussaglia scored the equalizer for France two minutes from the end of regulation play.
England had the early advantage in the penalties decider as Karen Bardsley saved the first French effort from Camille Abily.
But Claire Rafferty's weak effort saw the French restore parity and when Faye White blasted her effort onto the crossbar it was the end of England's campaign, losing the shootout 4-3.
"To get to penalties we did well. It was just unfortunate we missed two," England coach Hope Powell told BBC Sport.
"It was just tired legs. At the end we were dead on our feet. Unfortunately when it came down to penalties you have to applaud France."
Her side were boosted when Everton midfielder Scott blasted her second goal of the tournament, but her Paris St.Germain counterpart Bussaglia leveled as her shot curled in off the post.
England, sporadically dangerous on the break, had the best chance in extra time, but Ellen White shot into the side netting from a a good position.
