(CNN Student News) -- August 13, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why do you think that some trials receive more media coverage than others?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these key terms you heard in today's show:
1. typhoon
2. sinkhole
3. verdict
4. meteor shower
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is one of the two names of the typhoon that struck the Philippines recently?
2. What was a Florida jury's verdict regarding George Zimmerman?
3. What is the difference between a meteor and a meteorite?
Discussion Questions:
1. What might be some of the dangers associated with severe storms like typhoons? What do you think people could do to try to minimize a typhoon's impact?
2. What was your reaction to the verdict in the George Zimmerman trial? Why do you think that this trial received extensive news coverage?
3. What might scientists learn from studying meteors? In what situations might scientists use data collected by amateur astronomers?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Philippines
Florida & Colorado
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
