A guru in India's northern Haryana state is in jail awaiting trial after 10 days of clashes between his followers and police seeking his arrest.
The spiritual leader, Rampal Maharaj, was arrested Wednesday at his ashram without further resistance from his followers, said M.L. Kaushik, the regional administrative commissioner.
Police said 459 people have been arrested.
Also on Wednesday, Rampal's followers turned over the bodies of five women and a child who authorities believe died of illness, Haryana state Police Chief S.N. Vashisht said.
Tensions started more than a week ago when the followers didn't let officers arrest Rampal, the commissioner said. The situation began to escalate, culminating in full-blown clashes.
The initial order to arrest Maharaj came after he repeatedly failed to appear in court in connection with a 2006 murder case, Kaushik said.
After his arrest, the guru also was charged with sedition and waging war against the state, as well as attempted murder and rioting, Haryana state Police Chief S.N. Vashisht told CNN.
The guru was jailed after making a court appearance Thursday in the city of Chandigarh, and a hearing was set for November 28, Vashisht said.
"I am innocent. All allegations against me are false," Rampal told reporters as he was escorted out of court.
Several security personnel were injured in the clashes with the guru's followers, who fired shots and pelted police with stones at the 2½-acre religious complex, police said.
Police had surrounded the ashram and ordered its evacuation, cutting off the water and electricity, and warned they wouldn't leave until they had arrested Rampal.
Police attempted to storm the compound on Tuesday attempting to take Rampal into custody. Television footage showed hundreds of police in riot gear aiming water cannons and tear gas at stone-throwing crowds.
As many as 85 of Rampal's followers were hurt, authorities said.
Thousands of the supporters left the ashram late Tuesday and into Wednesday, police said. Early Wednesday afternoon, they estimated about 5,000 people remained inside, and the situation was reported to be calmer.
Ashram authorities on Wednesday handed over to authorities the bodies of five women and a child who had died recently. Police said the bodies bore no visible signs of injury.
"We believe they were sick and died because of lack of medical attention on time," Kaushik said.
Autopsies will be performed at a nearby hospital to determine the cause of death.
Rampal, 63, is a worshiper of Kabir, a 15th-century Indian mystic, according to his website.
