Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer are on course for their first semifinal meeting since 2005 after both progressed at the Masters Series event in Miami.
World No. 1 Nadal set up a quarterfinal clash with seventh-ranked Czech Tomas Berdych after crushing Ukraine's Alexandr Dolgopolv 6-1 6-2 on Tuesday evening U.S. time.
No. 3 Federer, who took to the court after midnight following Maria Sharapova's marathon three-hour win in the women's event, defeated Belgium's Olivier Rochus 6-3 6-1 to earn a meeting with 25th seed Gilles Simon -- who has beaten him in two of their three meetings to date.
However, the 16-time grand slam champion prevailed in five sets against the Frenchman at this year's Australian Open, and faces a player who needed two and a half hours on court before beating Serbia's Janko Tipsarevic 4-6 7-6 (7-3) 6-2.
Murray parts company with coaching consultant Corretja
"It's happened a few times in my career where we waited around forever and I was able to play one of those clean, quick matches," two-time Miami champion Federer told the ATP Tour website after extending his record against Rochus to 8-0.
Nadal, twice a runner-up in the hard-court tournament, has a chance to avenge his Indian Wells final defeat against world No. 2 Novak Djokovic if he can get past Berdych on Thursday and then possibly Federer -- who he last faced at semifinal stage at the 2005 French Open.
"We know each other," the Spaniard said of Berdych. "We played a lot of times, and I know if I play my best tennis I'm going to have chances against him.
"He can play very, very good, and I have to play very solid all the time with my serve and wait a chance on the return."
Berdych, who lost to Nadal in the 2010 Wimbledon final, battled into the last eight with a 6-3 2-6 7-6 (7-4) win over Germany's Florian Mayer.
Djokovic, unbeaten in 21 matches this year, can reach the semifinals with victory over unseeded South African Kevin Anderson on Wednesday.
The winner of that match will play 14th seed Mardy Fish, who upset Spanish No. 6 David Ferrer 7-5 6-2 and will next week become the top-ranked American ahead of Andy Roddick.
Former No. 1 player Sharapova will return to the top-10 of the women's rankings after an absence of more than two years following her hard-fought quarterfinal win over Alexandra Dulgheru.
The Russian, a two-time grand slam champion who has battled injuries since 2008, finally overcame the Romanian 26th seed 3-6 7-6 (8-6) 7-6 (7-5) in their first encounter.
The 16th seed injured her ankle during the match, but is confident she will be able to play in her second successive semifinal following the defeat by Indian Wells champion Caroline Wozniacki two weeks ago.
"It hurt when I did it. I've iced it a lot, did an ice bath and got it taped. I'll be okay. I'm tough," the 23-year-old told the WTA Tour website ahead of her clash with 21st seed Andrea Petkovic, who beat Sharapova 6-2 6-3 at the Australian Open in January and eliminated current No. 1 Wozniacki on Monday.
Bosnia-born German Petkovic knocked out another former No. 1, Serbian sixth seed Jelena Jankovic, winning 2-6 6-2 6-4.
Second seed and defending champion Kim Clijsters saved five match-points against Jankovic's compatriot Ana Ivanovic before finally prevailing 7-6 (7-4) 3-6 7-6 (7-5) in a fourth-round tie between two former top-ranked players.
The Belgium had dropped just seven games to Ivanovic in their previous three matches, but found herself 5-1 down and 0-40 on her own serve in the third set before
Two-time Miami winner Clijsters, who briefly regained top spot from Wozniacki this year, will face eighth seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus in the quarterfinals on Wednesday.
The winner of that match will take on Russian third seed Vera Zvonareva, who beat Polish No. 9 Agnieszka Radwanska 7-5 6-3 in the opening match on Wednesday.
