(CNN Student News) -- March 14, 2014
As a region of Ukraine prepares to vote on its political future, we're bringing you two very different perspectives on the referendum from two world capitals. We also report on why the search area for a missing passenger jet may be expanded, and we examine how Millennials are impacting housing in the U.S. It's all featured this Friday on CNN Student News!
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were reporting on the housing market in your area, whom would you want to interview, and why?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What is the only one of the Great Lakes located entirely within the U.S.?
2. What instrument on a plane transmits its altitude, location and direction?
3. What war was the subject of the first official war photos ever taken?
4. What is the world's largest international police organization, with 190 member countries?
5. Edward Snowden leaked secret information about what U.S. federal agency's activities?
6. What U.S. city was the site of an explosion that destroyed two buildings and killed several people on Wednesday morning?
7. What is the name of the generation of people born in the 1980s and 1990s?
8. What invention by Tim Berners-Lee recently turned 25 years old?
9. What term describes the 24-hour cycle of human activity that includes sleeping and waking?
10. What is the name of the region in southern Ukraine that is holding a referendum on rejoining Russia?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
