Manchester City booked its place in the last-16 of the Champions League following a 2-0 victory over Roma on Wednesday.
Samir Nasri's stunning 60th minute strike and Pablo Zabaleta's late effort gave City all three points and secured second place in Group E behind Bayern Munich.
Roma, who hit the post in the second half through Kostas Manolas, also had an effort cleared off the line.
But City held out to ensure its place in the knockout phase of the competition.
"I think the performance of the team was amazing," Nasri told Sky Sports.
"It was important for me to score, after the surgery I took a while to get to my full level, now I am."
The result was even more of an achievement for City given the absence of three of its star players.
Sergio Aguero, who scored a hat-trick in the 3-2 win over Bayern Munich was ruled out with a knee injury, while captain Vincent Kompany failed to shake off a hamstring problem.
City was also without its talisman midfielder Yaya Toure, who was suspended after being sent off during the 2-1 defeat by CSKA Moscow.
A tense opening hour was finally brought to life by Nasri who produced a wonderful piece of skill to give his side the lead.
The Frenchman's shot from 20-yards flew off the post and into the net to stun the home side.
Roma, now requiring two goals to progress, came close with Joe Hart making a number of important saves before Manolas' header struck the post.
The home side continued to push forward in search of an equalizer but Mattia Destro's effort was hacked off the line as City's nerves began to fray.
But with four minutes of normal time remaining, City broke at speed and Nasri played in Zabaleta to fire into the far corner.
"We recovered our normal performance, playing good pressing and playing well with the ball," Manuel Pellegrini, the Manchester City manager, told Sky Sports.
"We are a solid team, we are recovering the ball in the correct way. I had a lot of trust in what we could do. I said I didn't want to talk about players not in the team. This team deserve a little more credit than the press always give us."
Bayern Munich, which had already won the group, defeated CSKA Moscow 3-0 courtesy of goals from Thomas Muller, Sebastian Rode and Mario Gotze.
In Group F, Barcelona sealed top spot with a convincing 3-1 win over Paris Saint-Germain.
Zlatan Ibrahimovic, once of Barcelona, gave the visiting team the lead before Lionel Messi equalized with his 75th goal in the competition.
Neymar and Luis Suarez added further strikes to ensure Barcelona will face a team which finished second in its group when the draw is made on Monday.
In the same group, Ajax thrashed Cypriot side Apoel Nicosia 4-0 in Amsterdam.
Chelsea rounded off its group stage campaign with a 3-1 win over Sporting Lisbon at Stamford Bridge.
Cesc Fabregas, Andre Schurrle and Jon Obi Mikel scored the goals for Chelsea while Schalke's 1-0 win at Maribor allowed the German club to take second spot in Group G.
Elsewhere, Porto and Shakhtar, both already through to the next stage, drew 1-1 while Athletic Bilbao claimed a 2-0 win over Bate Borisov
The Belarussian side has the rather dubious honor of having conceded the most goals ever in the history of the competition's group stage, beating the previous record of 22 held by Dinamo Zagreb and Nordsjaelland
