Horrific new details in the beating death of 4-year-old Myls Dobson emerged Wednesday during the arraignment of his New York caretaker.
Kryzie King, 27, who was indicted last month on 12 felony and misdemeanor charges, including first-degree assault, first-degree assault reckless endangerment and endangering the welfare of a child, pleaded not guilty in Manhattan criminal court.
Myls died January 8 after his father, Okee Wade, left the boy in the care of King before Wade went to jail in connection with a fraud case, police said. King told investigators she starved, beat and burned the boy before his death, according to a criminal complaint.
King's attorney, Bryan Konoski, did not return calls seeking comment.
Assistant District Attorney Nicole Blumberg told the court Wednesday that Myls was a happy, healthy, well-nourished little boy when he arrived at King's home in mid December 2013. But when police found Myls in her apartment, the prosecutor said, his body was burned, bruised and cut from head to toe.
Blumberg, part of the district's attorney's child-abuse unit, told the court that King admitted to police that the child lost between 10 and 20 pounds as she watched him starve. He hadn't eaten and barely had any liquid for nearly two weeks before his death, the prosecutor said. In addition, he endured two weeks of torture allegedly at the hands of King, who told police he had been misbehaving.
The prosecutor told the court that the physician who performed an autopsy on Myls said no known diseases appeared to cause his death.
The medical examiner's officer determined that Myls sustained injuries to his head, neck, face, abdomen, legs, wrists, ankles, fingers, armpit and testicles, Blumberg told the court. According to the medical examiner, his injuries were at multiple stages of healing and consistent with non-accidental trauma.
Additionally, the medical examiner reviewed photographs of objects recovered from King's home -- including belts with metal ends, wires, a George Foreman grill and an oven rack -- and concluded there were distinct pattern marks on the body consistent with the objects, Blumberg told the court.
The investigation by the medical examiner's office is expected to conclude within the next month, the prosecutor said, adding that all evidence indicated that Myls' death was caused by King. Blumberg said the district attorney is still investigating murder charges and will likely bring additional charges once autopsy findings are final.
Myls was found unconscious and unresponsive on the floor of a bathroom at King's apartment at the Ritz Plaza, a luxury high-rise in the Hell's Kitchen section of Manhattan. Myls was later pronounced dead at a hospital.
In the final weeks of his brief life, Myls suffered unspeakable acts of neglect and violence, according to a criminal complaint.
King told police that Myls' father dropped the child off for her to watch on December 17 and that she was the "child's primary and sole caretaker" until the time of his death, the complaint said.
King, who is being held without bail in a medical facility on Riker's Island, is due back in court March 26.
