(EW.com ) -- We may not have seen the last of Walter White.
Peter Gould, executive producer of AMC's "Breaking Bad" spinoff Better Call Saul, told the New York Daily News that the spinoff will jump between decades and may even include scenes that take place during the "Breaking Bad" timeline. This means that there's a chance Bryan Cranston will reprise his three-time Emmy-winning role as school teacher-turned-meth kingpin Walter White.
EW: Full 'Breaking Bad' coverage
"One of the great things about having a timeline which is flexible is that perhaps some of it takes place before 'Breaking Bad,' during 'Breaking Bad,' and after 'Breaking Bad'," Gould told The New York Daily News. "That gives us the ability to bring back characters that were killed on 'Breaking Bad.'"
The spinoff, however, will not be dependent on guest appearances from Breaking Bad alums. Gould insisted that he and the rest of the Better Call Saul team wanted to "make a show that stands on it own, is its own story, and is a brand extension."
EW: AMC orders second season of 'Breaking Bad' spin-off 'Better Call Saul,'
"We think we have a story that is worth making," said Gould. "We could never dream of the kind of success that Breaking Bad had, and the love we got from the fans. But [with Saul] at a certain point you have to do the best job you can and tell the best story that entertains you, get a good response and hope people like it."
The "Breaking Bad" spin-off will reunite Bob Odenkirk with Jonathan Banks, who played fixer Mike Ehrmantraut on the original series. The rest of the cast includes Michael McKean, Patrick Fabian, Rhea Seehorn, and Michael Mando. "Better Call Saul" was originally slated to premiere in November; however, AMC decided to push its debut back to early 2015. Last month, AMC showed an early vote of confidence in the show and renewed it for a 13-episode second season before the first season even hit the air.
See the original story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
