(The Frisky) -- Even if you're not going to Fiji or the Maldives, accidentally ending up in a popular honeymooning spot while not actually on your honeymoon is easier than you think, especially with the abundance of all-inclusive deals online.
Just because your hotel mates are on a romantic getaway doesn't mean they're not open to company.
If watching smooching couples while chilling out with your friends makes you want to puke, no worries. You can still have a blast, even if you're not traveling with your newly committed soul mate.
Relax
You probably chose the fantastic place because you found a great deal to an amazing destination (much like your cuddling neighbors), so take advantage. Hit the spa, do some yoga, swim or make time for the mellow activities that are tough to fit in back home.
While you probably won't meet the guy of your dreams lying motionless in a mud wrap, you'll be Zen enough to have a new outlook once your return home.
Don't underestimate the locals (or the ex-patriot)
There's nothing better than getting to know a place by hanging out with people who can tell you more than a guidebook about the area's culture and hidden gems.
Have a glass of wine and chat up the bartender (or the person with the best English if you're abroad) or find out about an area of town where the ex-patriots live. Especially if you've been away from home for a long time, an American omelet or bagel can keep you smiling.
Make friends
Just because your hotel mates are using the vacation as a romantic getaway doesn't mean that they are not open to meeting others on their travels. There's a chance you'll end up chatting with a couple who bores you with the details of their wedding, but you might luck out and make a few friends (who perhaps will save you seats at the breakfast buffet the next morning).
Plan activities
Jet skiing, para-gliding, R.V. treks -- take advantage of all the offerings, that way you'll have fun and burn some of the calories you've packed on by sipping cocktails on the beach all day. Besides experiencing new things, you may run across others who have unknowingly booked the same Travelocity deal without any romantic intentions.
Come prepared
With portable board games, books, cards and an unlimited amount of iPod-fueled music, keeping busy in a honeymoon spot can seem a bit like summer camp (but with booze). Use the time a couple might spend in their room getting busy to work on your Scrabble skills, or catch up on all the new music you've downloaded but have yet to hear.
And if you forgot your iPod, don't like spas, and can't find anyone in the entire city who isn't newly married and in love, you and your travel-mates can always place bets on which honeymooning couple will be the first to break up.
TM & © 2009 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
