American golfer Nick Watney produced a fine closing round at the WGC-Cadillac Championship in Florida to secure the third PGA Tour win of his career.
The 2009 runner-up teed off two shots behind overnight leader Dustin Johnson on the Blue Monster course at Doral on Sunday, but summoned a five-under-par 67 to steal victory away from his compatriot.
"Top-10 finishes are nice," Watney told the PGA Tour website after claiming the $1.4 million first prize. "But winning is what counts out here, and that's how you're measured. To win this tournament against this field, it's a huge honor. I'm very excited. I'm very proud."
By the time he arrived at the last, the 29-year-old Watney had opened up a one-shot lead over close friend Johnson -- with whom he shares a coach in Butch Harmon and regular practice rounds.
Johnson's challenge was extinguished when Watney made a birdie at the par-five 18th -- the same hole he had double-bogeyed on Saturday.
"I wasn't nervous. I really wanted to take care of business and to grasp this opportunity," said Watney, who rose to 15th in the world rankings after his win. "I actually love that feeling; you don't get it too often.
"That's why you play. I'm thinking, 'I have to be in this moment -- right now -- because this is all that counts.' "
Johnson was left to reflect on an opportunity missed, having bogeyed the 16th on his way to a disappointing closing round of 71. But he was full of praise for Watney.
"Nick is a good friend of mine," Johnson said. "I told him walking off that if I was going to lose to somebody, I was glad it was him. And he played really well. I didn't give him the tournament. He earned it. He played well."
Tiger Woods produced a stirring final round of 66 to achieve a tie for 10th -- his first top-10 finish in an official PGA Tour event since the 2010 U.S. Open last June.
"I want to win golf tournaments and I didn't do that this week," Woods said. "But I showed positive signs for the next time I play, which is a good thing."
Woods' round of 66 on Sunday was matched by his 22-year-old U.S. Ryder Cup teammate Rickie Fowler, who finished eighth to make it back-to-back top-10s in WGC events.
Meanwhile, world No. 3 Luke Donald slipped out of contention with a closing round of 72. The Englishman was seeking a second WGC title of the season after winning the match play event in February, but his challenge faded with bogeys at the 11th and 13th holes.
Donald had to make do with seventh, with fellow Europeans Anders Hansen of Denmark and Italy's Francesco Molinari in a tie for third.
