This was one video Beyonce and Jay Z wanted the world to see.
The superstar pair kicked off their highly anticipated joint "On The Run Tour" Wednesday night at SunLife Stadium in Miami, Florida, and the usually intensely private couple shared their never-before-seen wedding video and clips of their toddler, Blue Ivy.
The video showed the couple getting their infamous matching ring finger tattoos, and fans were able to see for the first time the rapper in his tux and sliding the wedding ring on his beautiful wife's finger. The pair married during an extremely private ceremony in 2008.
It stood in sharp contrast to the hotel elevator footage leaked in May that showed Jay Z being pummeled by his wife's sister, Solange Knowles. The trio later released a statement saying "they both have apologized to each other and we have moved forward as a united family."
Their front was even more united Wednesday night, and Billboard said the show was all about Mr. and Mrs. Carter -- minus even an opening act.
"Alternating in the sparse, almost industrial-looking stage, Beyonce and Jay-Z proceeded to take us on a journey of fashion, high-level performance and music, always returning to the central theme of love -- challenged, perhaps, but finally standing strong," Billboard wrote.
According to site Consequence of Sound, the show boasted a 42-song set list for a 2-hour-plus concert. One fan tweeted, "BRILLIANT. Started with 'this is not real life' (stories) & ended with 'this is real life' (family videos). EPIC. #OnTheRun #OnTheRunTour "
Writing for Forbes, journalist Jesse Lawrence said the tour is on pace to be "the second most successful tour of all time based on gross revenue per show," behind band U2's "360" tour.
"If 'On The Run' cracks $100 million in gross sales, as Ticketmaster says it is on pace to do, they'd be the clear number two, with around $5,000,000 in gross sales per show," Lawrence wrote.
The tour is scheduled to perform at a total of 20 stadiums in the United States.
