(CNN Student News) -- April 29, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Tornado affected areas • Kennedy Space Center  • United Kingdom
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
ROBERT ALLEN, TERRA LINDA HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT [RAPPING]: One, two, three... hit it! You keep on and you don't stop. You keep on and you don't stop. Now what you hear is not a test, so if think you're the best, then put it to rest. So ladies, fellows, girls and boys, join me please and make some noise for your favorite show and mine, CNN Student News. Take it away, Carl.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Okay, it's Friday, and that was awesome! My buddy had a sweet voice too. Thank you to the students at Terra Linda High School. And thanks to all of you for rapping up -- get it? -- your week with CNN Student News.
First Up: Southern Storms
AZUZ: Unparalleled, near-epic, heartbreaking. Those are just some of the words officials are using to describe the severe weather and the impact that it had as it ripped across parts of the southern U.S. on Wednesday. We've been talking about storms in the south for a few days now. The devastation that happened on Wednesday was immense. Across six states, more than 270 people were killed. Whole neighborhoods destroyed. Governors declaring states of emergency and asking President Obama to do the same thing.
Most of the deaths happened in Alabama. This video gives you an idea of just how frightening it was to be in parts of that state on Wednesday. This tornado hit Tuscaloosa. That's where the University of Alabama is located. Officials say the school wasn't hit too badly. Nnot the case for other parts of the town. Tuscaloosa's mayor said, "I don't know how anyone survived." He added, "We're used to tornadoes here in Tuscaloosa. But when you look at the path of destruction... there's parts of the city I don't recognize."
No question about it, these storms were strong. As it turns out, you're more likely to get more powerful storms when there aren't a lot in one area. Yesterday, Chad Myers explained the science behind that.
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: When you have a bunch of storms that are all banging into each other, you don't get F-4, F-5 tornadoes. When you have a storm all by itself, like we had a couple of them yesterday, here, here, here, here, not battling tops, all by themselves, that's when you get this type of structure.
Impact Your World
AZUZ: Relief is already on the way. At CNNStudentNews.com, you can out how you can make a difference. Go to our home page, scroll down to the Spotlight section and click on the "Impact Your World" link to learn how you can help.
What's the Word?
BARBARA HALL, CNN STUDENT NEWS: What's the word?
As a noun, it means an effort, an action or activity designed to achieve a goal.
ENDEAVOR
That's the word!
Endeavour Launch
AZUZ: The space shuttle Endeavour is getting ready to set off on a new endeavor. You might notice that the shuttle's name is spelled differently. That's because it's named after a British ship, not after the word. Endeavour is scheduled to launch later today. The mission to the international space station will be commanded by Mark Kelly. His wife will be at the Kennedy Space Center to watch the liftoff. That's newsworthy, because his wife is U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who was the victim of a shooting less than four months ago.
The two-week mission is the last one for Endeavour. As it gets ready to take its last flight, John Zarrella looks back at the first time Endeavour lifted off.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
JOHN ZARRELLA, CNN MIAMI BUREAU CHIEF AND CORRESPONDENT: Endeavour, the newest of the orbiters, might never have been built if not for a terrible accident. In the aftermath of the loss of Challenger in 1986, President Reagan promised the disaster would not stop the journey outward.
FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN: We will continue our quest in space. There will be more shuttle flights and more shuttle crews.
ZARRELLA: A year and a half later, Congress authorized the construction of the new, nearly $2 billion space plane. Endeavour's first flight, 1992.
UNIDENTIFED NASA ANNOUNCER: Liftoff of the maiden voyage of Endeavour...
ZARRELLA: This will be its 25th and final flight. Along its journey, Endeavour made numerous construction trips to the international space station and handled the first Hubble Telescope repair mission. Barbara Morgan, the first educator in space, flew on Endeavour. Morgan was the back-up to teacher-in-space Christa McAuliffe, who died on Challenger. The shuttle fleet has had both a tragic and triumphant past. And for thirty years, has been America's signature flying machine.
COL. MIKE FINCKE, ENDEAVOUR ASTRONAUT: It's got a glass cockpit. It has a robot arm. It can fly to the Hubble Space Telescope or the station. It can land anywhere on the planet that has a runway. It is an amazing piece of equipment on any scale.
ZARRELLA: When Endeavour returns from its final flight, Commander Mark Kelly jokes, there won't be anything missing.
MARK KELLY, ENDEAVOUR COMMANDER: You know, when you fly an airplane to the boneyard out in the desert, they say don't take anything off of it. You get the brief ahead of time. I'll do the same thing with my crew: "You got to leave, make sure it all stays intact for the museum." We're not gonna be signing our name on anything.
ZARRELLA: Perhaps just the guest book at the California Science Center, where Endeavour will be placed in retirement. John Zarrella, CNN, at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.
(END VIDEO)
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mrs. Newkirk's 7UPS classes at Eastside Middle School in Mt. Washington, Kentucky! Where is today's royal wedding taking place? You know what to do! Is it in: A) St. Paul's Cathedral, B) Westminster Abbey, C) Buckhingham Palace or D) Piccadilly Circus? You've got three seconds -- GO! Prince William and Kate Middleton are exchanging vows at Westminster Abbey. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Royal Wedding
AZUZ: Westminster Abbey is a popular choice for royal weddings. That's where Queen Elizabeth II was married 63 years ago. Before William and Kate set foot in the Abbey this morning, though, people were lining up on the streets of London hoping to catch a glimpse of the couple on their way to Westminster. At CNNStudentNews.com, you'll find CNN's Royal Wedding Planner. Check out the guest list, the seating chart for the Abbey, the royal wedding family tree.
There's been a ton of media focus on the wedding, especially here in the U.S., a country that fought for its independence from Great Britain. Kiran Chetry looks at how a revolution eventually gave way to a special relationship between the two nations.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
DAVID WOOLNER, HISTORIAN, ROOSEVELT INSTITUTE: It's that summer of '39 that you see the beginning of the birth of this special relationship that's been with us ever since.
KIRAN CHETRY, CNN ANCHOR: At the time, the spotlight on another royal couple: King George and Queen Elizabeth. The special relationship with the United States begins with letters between the king and President Franklin Roosevelt. And soon after, a visit; the first time a reigning British monarch tours the U.S.
WOOLNER: This visit then comes at a very critical moment. War is imminent. Roosevelt was looking for a way to strengthen U.S. bonds with Great Britain. Especially the bonds between the American people and the British people.
CHETRY: Not long after, Winston Churchill is the first to use the phrase "special relationship," as the two countries fight together during World War II. A sentiment often repeated by other prime ministers and presidents throughout the years.
GORDON BROWN, FORMER BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: I come in friendship to renew for new times our special relationship.
CHETRY: Why is that relationship so special?
BROWN: It didn't start very well 225 years ago when you kicked the British out. But I think this shared purpose, the same values of liberty, democracy, responsibility to each other, fairness.
CHETRY: Yet, the special relationship has not been without strains. The United States would not support Great Britain during the 1956 Suez Canal crisis, and Great Britain refused to support the United States during the Vietnam War.
BROWN: We can have treaties that are broken, but this relationship, it seems to me, is unbreakable, because it is based on something more than just sort of an assessment of your best interests.
CHETRY: Close ties between the two countries often correspond with the bonds of friendship between the leaders: Prime Minister Harold McMillan and President John F. Kennedy fighting the Cold War. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and President Ronald Reagan, united during the fall of the Soviet Union. But Prime Minister Tony Blair's support of President George Bush's decision to invade Iraq was not without consequences.
WOOLNER: This became very, very unpopular, of course, among the British public. And Tony Blair paid a price for this politically and is still paying a price for this to this day.
CHETRY: But as the two countries move forward, former Prime Minister Brown takes an optimistic view.
BROWN: Despite all the different problems that will arise, this relationship will endure and, perhaps, strengthen in the years to come.
(END VIDEO)
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go, kids hate being told to clean up their toys. But for the little guy in this YouTube video, it's a chance to show off his skills. First shot, kind of impressive. Keep in mind, he's only 18 months old. He lines up the 2nd kick. Gooooooooooooooooooooal! Can he go a perfect 3 for 3? You bet he can. Somebody better sign him up! Turns out, somebody did! His granddad's old soccer team. Signing a toddler to a ten-year contract?
Goodbye
AZUZ: We bet grandpa got a real kick out of that. As for the mini-midfielder, if he ever throws a tantrum, I guess his parents just have to give him a red card since there are no time outs in soccer. That's gonna run out the clock on today's show. We'll see you again on Monday.
