A nationwide search continued Monday for two of three inmates who escaped from an Arizona prison Friday -- after a third was apprehended 670 miles away following a shootout in Colorado.
An all-points-bulletin has been issued to authorities around the country for the escapees identified as Tracy Province and John McCluskey.
The third inmate was captured Sunday in Rifle, Colorado.
Daniel Renwick, 36, was spotted driving a brown Chevy Blazer by a Rifle police officer who gave chase, according to Arizona Department of Corrections Director Charles Ryan. Gunshots were exchanged, and Renwick was ultimately taken into custody.
Renwick was serving 22 years for second-degree murder. He is being held in Colorado, awaiting questioning by the U.S. Marshals Service.
Province and McCluskey are believed to be with a female accomplice who was on the visitation list for one of the inmates.
Charles Ryan, director of the Arizona Department of Corrections, told HLN that it's believed she has a relationship with McClusky and may have aided the escape by throwing cutting tools over a fence
The suspected accomplice was identified as 43-year-old Casslyn Mae Welch, who is 5 feet 3 inches tall and weighs 135 pounds, with brown hair and green eyes.
After their escape, the inmates and the accomplice abducted two truck drivers at gunpoint on Interstate 40 outside of Kingman, Arizona, and hijacked their 18-wheeler, according to the Mohave County sheriff's department in Kingman. The truck drivers and the rig were released five hours later in Flagstaff, about 135 miles to the east.
One of the truck drivers spoke about it later.
"They said, 'If you guys are nice to us, we will be nice to you. If you do anything, we will shoot you,' " said Prabhjeet Bains. "Every time he looked at me, I thought he was going to shoot me, so I'm glad we are still alive."
The fugitives were later believed to be driving a 2002 silver Volkswagon Jetta, purchased Saturday in west Phoenix.
They were later spotted on a security camera in a bank inside a grocery store in Goodyear, Arizona, according to Barrett Marson, spokesman for the Arizona Department of Corrections.
Province, 42, was serving a life sentence for murder and armed robbery. McCluskey, 45, was serving 15 years for attempted second-degree murder and other charges.
The men were discovered missing after the 9:45 p.m. count Friday at the privately-operated Kingman facility. The escapees cut a hole in the fence. A helicopter and dogs began a search.
"Precisely how they escaped is under investigation," Ryan said, noting some "operational security problems" at the prison.
"Those are being evaluated and investigated as we speak," he added.
Specifically, Ryan told HLN that authorities are looking at two possible failures in security.
First, an alarm didn't go off when a door was opened inside the prison. Ryan said he's not sure why it didn't activate. And second, a radio alarm indicating that the fence had been cut "wasn't detected for some time," he said.
"Staff did not respond sufficiently to alarms on the perimeter system,and we believe that afforded (the escapees) an opportunity to go through the fence and escape," he  said.
The escaped prisoners are described as armed and dangerous.
CNN Radio's Barbara Hall contributed to this report.
