A Florida court has approved the divorce of the father of Haleigh Cummings, a Florida girl who disappeared in February, and the girl's stepmother, a key witness in the case.
Ronald Cummings divorced his wife, Misty, who was the last person to see his daughter, Haleigh.
Ronald Cummings, 25, cites irreconcilable differences in ending his short marriage to his 17-year-old wife, whom he married more than a month after Haleigh went missing from her father's home in Satsuma, Florida, on February 9. Cummings has made several public pleas for information in her disappearance.
Misty Cummings, then known as Misty Croslin, was the last person known to have seen Haleigh the night she disappeared from the family's rented mobile home. The teenager said she tucked Haleigh and her 4-year-old brother into bed about 8 p.m. and went to sleep herself two hours later, but awoke at 3 a.m. to find the girl missing and a cinder block propping open a back door.
Ronald Cummings called police and reported his daughter missing when he returned from work at dawn.
Investigators have said they do not feel Misty Cummings has told them everything she knows.
"The police have been telling me that I've been keeping Misty under my wing and that's why she hasn't talked to the cops," Ronald Cummings told a HLN's "Nancy Grace" producer earlier in October. "So now, here you go, I divorced her. So now go find my baby."
The Putnam County Sheriff's office said in August that "the evidence and investigatory effort has minimized the likelihood that Haleigh's disappearance is the work of a stranger." Ronald Cummings and Crystal Sheffield, Haleigh's mother, are not considered suspects, police said.
"Investigators believe that Misty Croslin-Cummings continues to hold important answers in the case," the sheriff's office said in a written statement. "She has failed to provide any sort of detailed accounting of the hours during the late evening and early morning of Haleigh's disappearance. Furthermore, physical evidence at the scene contradicts Misty's sketchy account of her evening activities."
Croslin has not been named a person of interest or suspect in the case. In televised interviews, Croslin has said she does not know what happened to the little girl, while also saying she believed "the other side of the family" knows where she is.
The couple lived together for about six months before marrying in March.
Under the divorce settlement approved Thursday by a St. John's County court, both sides permanently and irrevocably waive any rights to alimony and other types of financial payments.
