(CNN)Are you a boxing fan? Fancy the best seats in the house for Saturday night's showdown in Las Vegas between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao? Got a spare $361,894 for a couple of tickets?
No? Ah, well then you might have a problem.
Yes, while most of the tickets for the highly-anticipated clash have sold out, there are still some floating around on secondary sites with ringside seats going at crazy money.
A ticket at ringside will cost you $180,000 -- a knockout price which might have you seeing stars.
As of lunchtime Friday, the most expensive seat on sale through the StubHub website, was retailing for a mammoth $128,705 but has since skyrocketed.
Tickets were released last Thursday, just eight days before one of the biggest fights in history after legal wrangling between the two camps.
However only around 1,000 were available to the general public, the rest of the estimated 16,500 tickets split between the fighters' camps and the casino as well as promoters and sponsors.
Not long after some were made available on resale websites at a mark up that could only be dreamed about even by the sharpest financial trader.
Those at the lower end of the eye-watering scale -- priced between $1,500 and $7,500 -- were snapped up in a matter of minutes.
The cheapest priced ticket being offered on StubHub as of Monday is $4,600 with that seat right at the back of the MGM Grand arena.,
"We've never seen anything like this in boxing, and I don't think in any sporting event," Bob Arum, Pacquiao's promoter, told CNN, .
And Arum isn't worried that the steep prices would keep fans away.
"The 1% has so much money, they don't know how to spend it. Whether it's yachts, paintings or tickets to a fight, money means nothing," he said.
"There was a craze for tickets and under our agreement with Mayweather Promotions, we felt we were being deprived of our fair share of the tickets (from) the standpoint of number and location.
"It was very, very important to my fighter Manny Pacquiao, to the Philippines people... Manny has friends and family like you can't believe -- that will be in account for 800 or 900 tickets themselves."
