The simmering row between departing Kimi Raikkonen and his Lotus team came to a boil Friday as the Finn threatened to boycott the final two races of the F1 season because he has not been paid.
Raikkonen turned up late for the Abu Dhabi round and took fourth behind all conquering Sebastian Vettel in afternoon practice.
But addressing gathered reporters at the end of session, the former world champion gave vent to his frustrations.
"I came here only because hopefully we found an understanding on the certain issues we have been having," said Raikkonen told UK's Press Association.
"Hopefully it will be fixed and we can finish the season as well as we can."
But when pushed on the possibility of not taking part in the final races in the United States and Brazil, Raikkonen hinted at the possibility of a no show.
"I enjoy racing, I enjoy driving -- but a big part of it is business," he said.
"Sometimes when that is not dealt with like it should, we end up in an unfortunate situation. You have to put the line somewhere, and if it goes over that... it is not really my fault anymore."
Raikkonen is reported to be owed $20 million for his efforts in 2013, a situation which has arisen because of financial arrangement Lotus has with its majority owners, the Luxembourg based investment group Genii Capital.
Under the arrangement, the drivers -- Raikkonen and Frenchman Romain Grosjean -- get their pay at the end of the season after sponsorship deals are tied up to cover the fees.
Raikkonen's frustrations with Lotus have built up over the season and he was involved in an angry and very public altercation with pit wall boss Alan Permane at the Indian Grand Prix last Sunday.
Team chairman Gerard Lopez has tried to cool the situation, praising Raikkonen for his efforts which leave them challenging for second place in the constructors' championship behind Red Bull.
"The only reason we're fighting for second in the world championship is because of all the points that Kimi has scored," he told the team's official website.
"We're doing everything we can to ensure Kimi and the team can continue to fight right up to the checkered flag in Brazil.
"Of course, recently a lot was made about the comments between Alan Permane and Kimi during the course of a tense moment in a race, but this was just one exchange taking a matter of seconds in the course of a two-year relationship," he added.
Raikkonen told reporters that he regretted the incident, but said other factors had left him disgruntled.
"It is all the other stuff, and all the things come together in the end. Like I said, it is easy to say that is the reason but it is not that."
"Sometimes it is not very nice when you hear that you are not really a team player, and you don't have the interests of the team (at heart) -- but you have been paid zero Euro the whole year," added the Finn.
Meanwhile, Vettel, who wrapped up a fourth straight title in India, continued his domination with a one minute 41.335 second clocking at the Yas Marina Circuit, ahead of Red Bull teammate Mark Webber.
Lewis Hamilton took third for Mercedes ahead of Raikkonen and Nico Rosberg in the second Mercedes.
