Authorities hunting suspected cop-killer Eric Matthew Frein say they discovered an AK-47 rifle, some magazines and a small bag of ammo in the northeastern Pennsylvania woods where they believe he was hiding.
"He's out in those woods right now," Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Corbett told reporters Monday morning. He was flanked by State Police Lt. Col George Bivens, who added, "I do believe that we are close to him at this point."
Tracking dogs and searchers are indicating "we're on the right trail," Bivens said Sunday. He confirmed that thermal imaging technology is being used to find 31-year-old Frein, who allegedly killed one state police officer and the shot another officer September 12 outside the Pennsylvania State Police barracks in Blooming Grove.
Frein had been planning the ambush for months or possibly years, authorities said.
Investigators said the items they found were either abandoned or hidden by Frein, who is a skilled marksman and trained survivalist.
Slaying planned for months?
Authorities have said that Frein hated law enforcement and that they believe that he's solely focused on hurting more officers, but not civilians. A reporter asked Corbett why investigators concluded that.
Corbett answered that the night of the barracks shooting, Frein had the opportunity to shoot civilians and didn't take it.
As to the rifle that was found over the weekend, it was positioned in such a way that it could be seen, and the items were partially concealed, Bivens said earlier.
"Frein obviously knows we're there" searching, he said.
Up to 400 law enforcement officers are searching for Frein, including members of the FBI, the U.S. Marshals Service and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
They are combing about 200 to 250 square miles of wooded area not far from Frein's family home in Canadensis -- about 20 miles from where Frein alleged shot state police officers.
Hunters should avoid the thick woods, authorities have said.
Schools in the areas have canceled classes.
Anyone with information or images they believe might be helpful should call 911 or contact law enforcement, Bivens stressed.
Bivens also warned that anyone who helps Frein will be charged accordingly.
