Headlines heralding violent news of Mexico's drug war splash across the front pages of the country's newspapers. Government tallies list more than 34,600 deaths since President Felipe Calderon began a crackdown on cartels in December 2006.
But many stories behind the statistics are never told, Mexican journalist Marcela Turati Munoz told CNN en Español.
"More of a voice has been given to the violent people; more of a voice has been given to the drug traffickers, and the victims really have not spoken," Turati said.
Through stories in her new book, "Fuego Cruzado" -- Spanish for "Crossfire" -- Turati said she hopes long-overlooked victims finally will be heard.
Turati conducted interviews in 10 Mexican states while researching the book, which hits shelves Tuesday.
In one chapter, she describes a woman, Nicole Polito Malaga, who keeps an altar to honor her three fallen children inside her wood hut. They were among 24 construction workers whose bodies were found in a forest in the Mexican state of Veracruz in 2008.
"We do not want their memory to be stained. They were not involved with drugs. They were poor, humble people," she says.
A wife describes her family's collapse after her husband disappeared. A pathologist explains what goes through his mind when he examines a decapitated head.
Other stories are told in Turati's voice, like that of 10 children killed by an explosion in Durango state while on their way to receive "Opportunities" scholarships from the government. Unable to afford coffins, their families shrouded them in blankets, she writes.
In another chapter, "No place for the children," Turati takes readers to an interrogation room inside a Laredo, Texas, police station, where a Mexican teenager tells authorities about the first time he killed -- when he was 13 years old.
"I thought I was Superman," Rosalio Reta says. "I loved doing it, killing that first person. Then they tried to take my gun, but it was like taking candy from a kid."
Turati said she hopes the stories in the book will not only "make victims visible" but encourage others to act.
"We still have time to see what is happening, reflect on what happened before and think about what type of society we are forming, with so much suffering, so much pain and so many losses," she said.
CNN's Mario Gonzalez contributed to this report.
