Croatia striker Eduardo has left English club Arsenal to join Ukrainian champions Shakhtar Donetsk, both teams confirmed on Wednesday.
The 27-year-old scored 20 goals in 67 appearances for the London outfit, but his impact was hampered after suffering a serious leg break in February 2008.
Eduardo signed a new long-term contract in November, but the Brazil-born player was allowed to leave for an undisclosed fee as he joined 2009 UEFA Cup winners Shakhtar on a four-year deal.
The signing of Marouane Chamakh from French club Bordeaux in May left Eduardo down the pecking order at Arsenal, who also have World Cup stars Robin Van Persie and Nicklas Bendtner to call upon up front.
"Eduardo's recovery from his injury sustained at Birmingham City in February 2008 is a testament to his strength as a human being, and this character and determination will be missed by everyone associated at Arsenal," the club said in a statement on its website.
"Everyone at Arsenal would like to thank Eduardo for his contribution towards the club and wishes him the best of luck for the future."
Meanwhile, Arsenal's Premier League rivals Liverpool continued rebuilding under new manager Roy Hodgson with the signing of defender Danny Wilson from Scottish champions Rangers.
The center-back, 18, agreed a three-year contract in a deal which could be worth up to $7.5 million to the cash-strapped Glasgow side, who have now lost seven players ahead of the new season.
Liverpool also unveiled England midfielder Joe Cole, who joined on a free transfer earlier this week after his contract at double winners Chelsea expired.
European champions Inter Milan signed Andrea Ranocchia from Genoa for an undisclosed fee on a five-year contract, but the 22-year-old central defender will be loaned back to the Serie A club for the new season.
The Italian league winners also sent young striker Mattia Destro on loan to Genoa as part of the deal.
It was a busy day for Genoa, who sold Greece's World Cup defender Sokratis Papastathopoulos to AC Milan for a reported $5.7 million on a five-year contract.
The 22-year-old was new Milan coach Massimiliano Allegri's first signing since replacing Leonardo.
Allegri also tied up veteran former Italy fullback Massimo Oddo, 34, to a new one-year contract, while Milan owner Silvio Berlusconi told reporters that former Brazil star Ronaldinho was not for sale.
