A British adventurer rescued after a failed attempt to sail solo around the globe says she is relieved to be back on land.
Sara Outen tweeted a photo of herself late Saturday from a Japanese hospital where she is undergoing evaluation after the nation's coast guard rescued her when her boat became disabled.
"Relieved to be back on land and with friends," Outen tweeted.
Outen began her solo circumnavigation April 1, 2011, in London with plans to cycle, row and kayak more than 20,000 miles. She hoped to finish in London in autumn 2013.
She was traveling alone when her boat was damaged during a tropical storm, rolling several times. A nearby merchant vessel and a coast guard plane kept watch on her until the rescue ship arrived.
Outen kept followers apprised of her ordeal in real time, tweeting from sea: "Focusing on calm trying2 block out wind and waves. Visualizing family and friends pulling us in."
More from Mainsail: The sailing world's hardest race
She was rescued Friday, though rough waters made it impossible for the Japan coast guard to tow her boat Gulliver back to port.
"As expected, due to adverse sea conditions, it was not possible to tow Gulliver back to land.," Outen's support team, London2London, said in a blog post Saturday. The team was "looking at options regarding Gulliver."
Outen was halfway to her goal when her boat was damaged. Her team says she has cycled and kayaked more than 11,000 miles, going through countries including Germany, Poland, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and China.
Meanwhile, a second solo British rower who was stranded about 280 miles northeast of where Outen was found has been rescued, according to his website.
Charlie Martell was attempting to row 6,000 miles across the Pacific when his boat was disabled by the same tropical storm that damaged Outen's Gulliver.
He was rescued late Friday by a Russian crew, his website said.
"Charlie spoke briefly to his support team to confirm that he is in good shape and uninjured, following a 36-hour wait since issuing the mayday signal," according to a posting on his website.
CNN's Kyung Lah in Tokyo contributed to this report.
