Over the last two decades he has been at Manchester United both as boy and man helping the club achieve the most unparallelled level of success.
And on Thursday veteran midfielder Ryan Giggs took another step in further cementing his remarkable relationship with the club after he was appointed as United's player-coach by David Moyes.
Welshman Giggs made his United debut in 1990 and has won 13 Premier League titles, four FA Cups and the European Champions League in 1999 and 2008, making him English football's most decorated player.
Moyes was announced as the United manager in May, after fellow Scot Alex Ferguson called time on his trophy-laden 26-year reign.
"I'm delighted that Ryan has accepted the chance to become player-coach," former Everton manager Moyes told United's official website as the new manager steps up his preparations for his first season at Old Trafford.
"His success and ability to adapt his game over a number of years gives him an unrivaled perspective on the modern game.
"His career is an example to any aspiring young player and I'm sure that both he and the players will benefit from his new role."
Now 39, Giggs said his appointment was a "great privilege."
The Welshman added: "I hope I will be able to bring my experience to bear, having been both a player and part of the Manchester United family for so long.
"It's no secret that I have been taking my qualifications and I see this as the first step in my future career. I'm really looking forward to working alongside David and the team."
Former United defender Phil Neville also returns to Old Trafford as part of Moyes' staff.
Neville played for the 20-time English champions between 1995 and 2005 before moving to Everton, where he played under Moyes for eight years.
Moyes' first Premier League match as United manager is at Swansea City on August 17.
Meanwhile United's rivals Chelsea have agreed to sign talented Dutch midfielder Marco van Ginkel from Dutch club Vitesse Arnhem.
A product of the Vitesse youth system, the 20-year-old Grinkel his debut in April 2010 and will join Chelsea subject to a medical.
