(CNN Student News) -- January 15, 2014
For today's coverage of global headlines, CNN Student News spans several continents. And with a possible compromise in the works in Washington, D.C., we'll peer into a proposed budget that has some support from both major political parties. Plus, a teacher uses a windmill to fan the enthusiasm of his students.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might specific interest groups use information about government spending to promote a cause?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. spending priorities
2. human trafficking
3. 12th man
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. How much money will the U.S. government spend if the proposed compromise budget is passed? What are some of the proposal's spending priorities? What are the next steps in this budget process?
2. According to the video, why does American journalist David Satter think he was expelled from Russia? What does the Russian government give as the reason?
3. What action have the Seattle Seahawks and Denver Broncos taken regarding ticket sales for this week's conference championships? What are some possible reasons for this move? How do some opposing teams' fans feel about this action? Why?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that a government's spending priorities are often a source of political disagreement? How do you think that different elected officials in the House and Senate might respond to a compromise budget? If you were elected to Congress, what would your spending priorities be? Why?
2. In the U.S., what guarantees a free press? What responsibilities do you think accompany that freedom? Explain.
3. Explain how the economic principle of supply and demand figures into the story about NFL conference championship tickets. What is your opinion of how the Seattle Seahawks and Denver Broncos are handling ticket sales for this weekend's games? State your rationale.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
