Manchester City striker Emmanuel Adebayor has been handed a three-match suspension for his stamp on Arsenal's Robin Van Persie last weekend.
Adebayor has also been charged for his goal celebration in last Saturday's defeat of Arsenal.
The Togo captain decided not to challenge the charge of violent conduct, so received a fast-track punishment from the English Football Association, which means he will miss this weekend's Manchester derby.
The 25-year-old still faces another charge, of improper conduct, relating to City's 4-2 Premier League victory against his former club on Saturday. Adebayor -- Hero or villain?
Adebayor raced the length of the field at City's Eastlands stadium to celebrate in front of the visiting Arsenal supporters after scoring the third goal, and was pelted with items including a plastic seat.
The hearing for the second charge has yet to be set by the FA.  Blog: Adebayor deserves to be banned
The ruling body said in a statement on Thursday: "A regulatory commission today considered the charge of violent conduct issued against Manchester City's Emmanuel Adebayor under the fast-track disciplinary procedure following an incident with Robin van Persie during their fixture against Arsenal on September 12.
"Taking into consideration Mr Adebayor's acceptance of the charge of violent conduct, the regulatory commission have ordered that he serve a three-match suspension from all football, commencing September 17.
"A separate charge of improper conduct will be considered at a later date."
City have until September 30 to indicate whether the club and player will contest the second charge.
As well as missing Sunday's eagerly-awaited trip to Old Trafford to face Premier League champions United, Adebayor will also sit out next Wednesday's League Cup tie at home to Fulham and the visit by West Ham to Eastlands on September 28.
Adebayor has been a key figure since his $41 million summer switch from Arsenal, scoring in each of the club's first four Premier League games -- two of them being the only goal of the match -- to help the team to a 100 percent record.
However, his ugly attack on the grounded Van Persie left his former teammate with facial injuries, and his ill-advised goal celebrations have only further alienated from Arsenal fans -- many of whom were happy that he left after the player publicly courted Barcelona and AC Milan last season.
City manager Mark Hughes faces a striker crisis this weekend, with only Craig Bellamy of his front-line forwards likely to be available.
Robinho, Roque Santa Cruz and Benjani have already been consigned to the injured list and Carlos Tevez is rated extremely doubtful to face his old club.
