The argument that led to country singer Billy Currington's indictment on terroristic threat charges involved a a charter boat captain who the performer thought sped too fast by his dock, the police report says.
A grand jury in Savannah, Georgia, handed up a two-count indictment Wednesday accusing Currington, 39, of threatening bodily harm against Charles Harvey Ferrelle last week. An elder abuse charge was included because Farrell is 70 years old.
The police report, obtained by CNN affiliate WSAV, says Ferrelle filed a criminal complaint saying "he feared for his life" after Currington screamed at him and followed him in a boat.
Ferrelle, a charter boat captain, was giving a boat tour around Tybee Island, Georgia, when he passed by Currington's property on April 15, the report said. Currington yelled at the boat from shore and then jumped in his own boat and followed as Ferrelle went to his slip at a nearby dock, it said.
Currington threatened that "he was going to f--k Mr. Ferrelle up," the police report said.
"If I hadn't gotten into my slip fast enough, I believe he would have run me over," Ferrelle told an investigator.
A Savannah judge issued a bench warrant for Currington's arrest after the indictment was handed up by the Chatham County grand jury Wednesday, District Attorney Meg Heap said Wednesday.
Currington and his representatives did not immediately respond to CNN requests for comment. But the singer posted a message to fans through his Twitter account: "hey guys, I wanted to thank everyone for the huge amount of support that I have received already. Unfortunately, I can't comment on this situation as this is an ongoing legal matter. It means a lot to me to have your support during this time."
While it is unclear if there is a connection, two days after the alleged incident Currington tweeted: "harrassing artists often at their home by boat should be illegal. thas all i know."
Although Currington resides primarily in Nashville, he is a native of Rincon, Georgia, which is about 35 miles inland from Tybee Island.
Currington's hit country songs include "Must Be Doin' Somethin' Right," "Good Directions," "People Are Crazy," "That's How Country Boys Roll," "Pretty Good at Drinkin' Beer," and "Let Me Down Easy."
CNN's Denise Quan and Jane Caffrey contributed to this report.
