New York (CNN)France remains in mourning after attacks on magazine Charlie Hebdo and other targets, including a kosher grocery store, left 17 dead and more critically injured.
Tributes have been pouring in to the victims, as well as messages of support for the magazine.  People everywhere took to social media to express solidarity. #charliehebdo circled the globe, along with #jesuischarlie translated into scores of different languages.  Such was the outpouring of support, Twitter confirmed #jesuischarlie had become one of the most popular hashtags in history.
Also trending were hashtags #JeSuisJuif, #JeSuisAhmed and #JeSuisHumain; people looking to show solidarity with all the victims of the terror rampage, including the police officers who were shot while defending Hebdo's employees.
At least 3.7 million people, joined by multiple world leaders, marched in anti terrorism rallies in Paris and elsewhere in France and around the world. Rallies and Vigils were held around the world; some participants holding pencils as a way to honor the fallen cartoonists, others held signs reading 'I am Charlie' in a variety of different languages including Hebrew.
Sunday after the attacks, New York's Empire State Building lit up in the colors of the French flag, then went dark for 5 minutes to honor the memories of those killed.
Maps showing planned events circulated online, while moments of silence and memorials were held. But there was also defiance, and vows to continue the legacy of those killed.
Indeed the first edition of Hebdo to be published after the attacks sold out in just hours.
Le Monde, along with Radio France and France Televisions, provided some resources to help the magazine stay afloat. Support came also from other sources, such as Google who pledged to donate 250,000 Euros from its Press Innovation Fund to support the print run, and the Guardian Media Group who pledged £100,000.
A crowdfunding campaign called 'Solidarite Charlie' has so far raised over €100,000 for the magazine, as well as for the families of the victims of the attack, including the police.
The Committee to Protect Journalists updated their site with profiles of some of those lost, and many took to Twitter to say they'd donated to CPJ in honor of Charlie Hebdo.
The website for Charlie Hebdo itself is now offering ways to donate to the magazine.  'Freedom is the right of expression,' reads its' website; 'Charlie Hebdo needs you to survive.'
Others expressed support by subscribing to the magazine.
Satirists unite
Cartoonists everywhere took up pencils to express their solidarity with the victims.
Many offered to donate cartoons to this week's issue of the magazine.
The cover of the New Yorker magazine shows the Eiffel Tower as a pencil, in solidarity with the fallen cartoonists.
Late night comedians also took to the air to express their support. "Very few people go into comedy as an act of courage," said Jon Stewart, "mainly because it shouldn't have to be that."
"In this country we take it for granted that it's our right to poke fun at the untouchable and the sacred," said Conan, "but today's tragedy in Paris reminds us very viscerally that it's a right some people are inexplicably forced to die for."
Coping with tragedy
"I am in the same mood as the day of 911," one French bystander told CNN. Indeed the American Psychological Association explains that terrorism works by instilling a sense of helplessness. "It seeks to hold a government or society hostage by fear of destruction and harm."
There are resources on their website to help those impacted by all-too-common attacks like the one on Charlie Hebdo.
Yet around the world the message was largely one of defiance in the face of fear.
A line from a blog by Matt Welch on Reason.com has been retweeted over a thousand times; "Do you really wanna be Charlie Hebdo? Then get on out there, live and speak bravely. And God help you."
