(InStyle) -- Gisele Bündchen is famous for her rumpled yet sexy hairstyle. Now, you can be too. Follow these 10 steps to snag her look.
Recreate Gisele Bündchen's signature style with a quick flip and shake.
1. Knotty Is Nice
The most appealing looks aren't perfect. Bündchen's mane man Harry Josh tells us how to re-create her signature rumpled style: "Flip your hair upside down and give it a good shake. Then flip it back over, scrunch the crown, and finger-comb the ends."
2. Veer off Center
"A low side part works on every face shape," says Josh. Use the end of a rattail comb to draw a line from the hairline at the outer corner of one eyebrow diagonally back to the center of the crown. It creates a sultry swoop in front while maintaining balance on both sides.
3. Condition First
For silky strands, apply a treatment mask to dry hair for 10 minutes before you shampoo. This allows natural oils to penetrate the cuticle and soften it from within. After rinsing, lather your scalp with a gentle shampoo to remove dirt and residue.
4. Be a Brunette Bombshell
A rich cocoa hue "has a dramatic quality that you just don't get from lighter shades," says N.Y.C. colorist Jason Backe, who likes Clairol Perfect 10 at-home color kit in Medium Auburn ($14; at drugstores). For Beyoncé's golden brown, try L'Oréal Paris Féria in Sparkling Amber ($10; lorealparis.com).
5. Ulterior Movements
According to body language expert Patti Wood, tossing hair back while showing the palm of your hand "is mysterious and sexy." But avoid twirling hair -- it signals insecurity.
6. All the Right Moves
There's a reason wind machines are a photo-shoot staple: Hair that's tousled is more provocative than stiff, straight planks. So fake the breezy effects of a blower with swinging layers. If you have medium to thick hair, ask your stylist for choppy layers all the way around your head (like Jennifer Aniston's). If you have fine strands, all it takes is a few chin-grazing pieces in front.
7. Spice Things Up
... with a sexy floral oriental fragrance (our pick: Armani's new frangipani, licorice and patchouli blend). Spritz the nape of your neck, and with every flirty toss your hair will release the come-hither scent.
8. Indulge Fantasies
No, we're not pushing Princess Leia's braids and bikini! But next time you reach for a ponytail holder, think sexy secretary. Twist hair into a low chignon, then secure it with a pencil, chopstick or, our fave multitasker, Clarins' smoldering black liner pencil with a tapered, tuckable end.
9. Dare to Gleam
There's a fine line between glossy and greasy, but new featherweight silicone sprays make it an easy one to navigate. For touchable shine, mist spray on palms and run them over the hair.
Try: Sebastian Professional Trilliant shine spray, $20; sebastianprofessional.com for salons.
10. Go Untucked
Experts agree that the surest way to fizzle your sizzle is by pushing hair behind your ears. "It's juvenile and generally not flattering on anyone," says N.Y.C. hair pro Garren. "Pull your hair back if you're at work, but on dates you can let it fall in your face in that flirty, Kate Moss kind of way," says Harry Josh.
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2009 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
