A 32-year-old man from Twin Falls, Idaho, has been charged with solicitation of rape and burglary after posting an advertisement on Craigslist seeking a man to enter his home and rape his wife, according to a Twin Falls County Court affidavit.
The husband admitted to having sent e-mails to Michael Combs asking that he rape his wife, according to the arrest warrant.
The ad was posted in the "Casual Encounters" section of the website and was headlined simply, "Want to help me," Twin Falls Police Officer Justin Dimond said in the warrant.
Combs told police that he responded to the person who posted the ad, who said his wife "wanted to be forcibly raped as that was a fantasy of hers" and urged him "not to stop no matter how much she resisted," according to the arrest warrant.
Police responded Saturday to a distress call from the house; when they arrived, they found the woman holding Combs at gunpoint and arrested him, according to the warrant.
She had been in the house alone while her husband was returning from Mountain Home, about 85 miles away, where he works for the National Guard, she told police.
Saturday's incident marked the second time in two days that police were called to the house. On Friday, the woman had struggled with another man who, she told police, told her that he was "there for her," according to the arrest warrant.
That man fled after pulling the gun out of the woman's hand, the warrant says.
After the second incident, police examined the husband's cell phone and discovered e-mails, nude photos of the body of a woman and photographs of a man's penis that matched photographs in Combs' e-mail, the warrant says.
The man who fled has not been identified and remains at large, police said.
The husband was being held on $100,000 bond, with a preliminary hearing scheduled for this month; he had not yet been assigned a public defender, police said. CNN was unable to reach Combs or either the husband and wife.
CNN is not identifying the couple out of concern for the wife's safety.
More from CNN Justice:
Iowa mom thinks missing girls may have been 'taken'
Hospital spokesman: Victims of Alabama bar shooting improving
NCAA not ruling out tough sanctions on Penn State football
New York authorities charge 48 in massive Medicaid fraud
