Actor Charlie Sheen voluntarily entered an undisclosed rehabilitation center for treatment Friday, his representative said.
"He is most grateful to all who have expressed their concern," Sheen representative Stan Rosenfield said.
The announcement came a day after Sheen was rushed to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, where Rosenfield said he was treated for severe pain related to a hernia. He checked out of the Los Angeles hospital Thursday night, he said.
"Charlie has had a hernia condition for some time," Rosenfield said. "I was told by the person who made the 911 call that it was hernia-related."
Sheen's hit CBS sitcom "Two and a Half Men" has been placed on "production hiatus," CBS and Warner Bros. Television said Friday.
"We are profoundly concerned for his health and well-being, and support his decision," their joint statement said.
Porn actress Kacey Jordan, who was at Sheen's house the night before his trip to the hospital, issued a statement through her representative Friday.
She is "very happy that Charlie decided to get some help, it was clear to me if he didn't he would have died," Jordan's statement said. "He is such a talented actor, and has his beautiful children to think about."
It was the second emergency trip to a hospital for Sheen in three months.
He spent several hours in a New York hospital in October after police responded to an early morning call about "an emotionally disturbed person" at the Plaza Hotel, a law enforcement source said at the time. Sheen's representative blamed an "adverse allergic reaction" to a medication.
Sheen, the son of actor Martin Sheen, spent at least a month last year at a Malibu, California, rehab center, but it was never disclosed what he was treated for there.
He was arrested in December 2009 after his wife, Brooke Mueller, told Aspen, Colorado, police that he threatened her with a knife at their holiday home.
A Colorado judge allowed the actor to count his time at Promises of Malibu toward a 30-day jail sentence after he entered a guilty plea in August in that case. The plea deal reduced the charges from felony domestic violence to a misdemeanor third-degree assault count.
CNN's Brittany Kaplan, Brooke Anderson and Kareen Wynter contributed to this report.
