His father is a nuclear engineer and his uncle was a high-ranking politician in Montenegro, but Milos Raonic is forging an entirely different career path with his own kind of power.
At an imposing 6ft 5in tall, he has burst onto the tennis scene this year with a fast-developing all-round game based upon his booming serve -- he has already registered the third-fastest delivery on record.
The 20-year-old is the highest-ranked Canadian tennis player in the history of the ATP Tour listings, he has won his first top-level tournament, and reached the fourth round of only his second grand slam event in Australia in January.
These are impressive numbers at such a young age, but they pale in comparison to the statistics of the man who has had a massive influence on Raonic's burgeoning career.
Pete Sampras won 14 grand slam crowns, 64 singles titles and spent a record 286 weeks at No. 1. He also helped launch Raonic's career in February when they met in San Jose at a tournament where the American legend himself triumphed twice.
Will bigger balls slow down the rocket men of tennis?
"I met him and then went on a nine-match winning streak, so it was a very inspirational moment," Raonic told CNN Open Court's Candy Reid of his breakthrough victory and subsequent final appearance in Memphis.
"It was another level of an experience for me, getting to meet someone you looked up to so much and watched for so many hours, getting to meet the person in the face to see what kind of person he is."
Raonic was so struck by that meeting that he still carries on tour a picture of the two that Sampras signed and framed for him.
"I looked up to him, I looked at all his matches, watched everything more than once -- he really was an inspiration. He was an inspiration for putting so much time behind that serve," he said.
The fabled Sampras serve. Raonic has an impressive arsenal of his own.
As well as its pace -- clocked at 153 mph (246 kph) in a Davis Cup tie at altitude in Mexico in March -- he has a variety that many opponents will struggle to counter, according to America's new No. 1 Mardy Fish.
"He's got all the serves that anyone else that I've ever seen does," Fish said after losing to Raonic in the Memphis semis.
"From the waist down he has the strongest legs of anyone I've seen. You can tell he still has some growing to do in his upper body, and it's a scary thought to think he's got ways to improve."
Fauna fight: The battle over Roland Garros
Andy Roddick, Raonic's final conqueror that week and formerly the world's fastest server, was also impressed.
"The good news for him is he's going to be able to learn on the job because that serve is going to win him a lot of matches. It's one of the bigger serves I've seen," the American said.
But Raonic knows that a lightning serve is not enough to guarantee success against the world's elite players.
"There is a lot of effort going into the rest of my game. I'm trying to develop for those days when you play number one, two, three, four, five in the world and they get all those serves back. I'm preparing myself as much as possible to be at the top of the game."
If he hadn't made the jump from junior ranks, and that was by no means a certainty when he began this year ranked 156th with doubts about his fitness and on-court attitude, Raonic might have been pursuing a different profession.
"I was big in academics so I think I'd be sitting behind a desk calculating with numbers. I want to finish university, I want to get a degree in finance," said the Montenegro-born player, who turned down a scholarship at the University of Virginia to focus on tennis.
"I want to at least have that education so I could have those options and choices because I really did enjoy that, especially with the calculator."
Is Nadal's clay domination good for tennis?
It was a tempting option, as he was not a top name among the juniors, but Raonic's career developed under the tuition of Frederic Niemeyer and he has taken a big leap since Tennis Canada sent him to work with former Spanish professional Galo Blanco last October.
"When we initially set my goals at the beginning of the year we set a top-50 goal by the end of the summer, so a lot of things came a lot quicker than planned," said Raonic, now ranked 25th and likely to be seeded at the French Open.
"I worked on a lot of things in the offseason which helped me a lot. Mentally was the biggest change, I was able to control a lot more of the situations. I was able to stay humble and calm and kept my head level with everything that was happening.
"I wasn't the superstar in the juniors, for me it just came recently. People talked a lot about potential with me, there were some believers but not too many believers. The way this came I surprised everybody and I surprised myself.
"The goal now is I want to keep developing and progressing, make sure I'm playing better this month than I was last month, and if I can do that the ranking will go up on its own."
While Canada-born Greg Rusedski reached the heights of world No. 4 after gaining British citizenship in 1995, Raonic said he would remain loyal to his adopted country, having moved to North America from Montenegro at the age of three.
"They have been very supportive. I grew up through the last three years with their national center and they are thriving, and I think there's a lot I can give there from a development and growth of the sport," he said.
"We have many great athletes but tennis is not the main thing they look up to -- they look up to hockey. I hope I can keep doing well and help the sport grow so we can have a few more players at the top."
