A Canadian border officer who was gunned down in her booth by a passing motorist, who soon after apparently committed suicide, is in stable condition, authorities said Wednesday.
"Our thoughts and prayers go out to the officer and her family," Vic Toews, minister of public safety, told reporters in Ottawa.
The shooting occurred Tuesday at a border crossing across from Blaine, Washington, from where the motorist had been traveling, authorities said.
The border guard was airlifted to a nearby hospital, and the man who shot her was pronounced dead at the scene, apparently from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, said Surrey Royal Canadian Mounted Police Cpl. Bert Paquet.
The shooter was driving into Canada in a car with Washington state plates, he said. The man's identity is not yet clear, and authorities closed the border crossing immediately after the incident.
The shooting occurred at the Peace Arch crossing in British Columbia, which is also known as the Douglas crossing. Canadian authorities are asking motorists to use another area crossing, said Faith St. John with the Canada Border Services Agency.
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police are investigating.
Dave Noble told CNN affiliate CTV that he saw a chaotic scene when he arrived at the crossing Tuesday.
About a dozen border guards with guns drawn encircled a white van.
"They had it surrounded. ... You knew something had gone down," he said. "It's very shocking. I feel terrible for the border guard. I come here quite a bit, and don't know any of them personally ... but there are some really nice people that work here."
Authorities told Lisa Kennedy that she and her family would be waiting for a while. She saw all the ambulances and police cars pull up to the scene, where the van's doors were opened.
"They said, 'Hold on, you guys are going to be here for a long time. We've had an injury, a fairly serious one,' " Kennedy told CTV.
Jagdar Randhawa said he heard the gunfire. "All of sudden, I hear two shots," he said Tuesday. "Then we wait for a while. We're still waiting for a long time."
About 60 vehicles were stranded on the Canadian side of the border.
