(EW.com) -- Corey Feldman and the late Corey Haim — known at the height of their popularity as "the Two Coreys" — were iconic '80s teen stars who dealt with more adult problems behind the scenes. In his upcoming memoir Coreyography (Oct. 29), Feldman, 42, details the sexual abuse he and Haim experienced while working in Hollywood.
According to Feldman, Haim told him about an incident on the set of the 1986 film "Lucas":
"Haim started to confide in me, about some intensely personal stuff, very quickly ... Within hours of our first meeting, we found ourselves talking about Lucas, the film he made in the summer of 1985, the role I had wanted for myself. At some point during the filming, he explained, an adult male convinced him that its was perfectly normal for older men and younger boys in the business to have sexual relations, that it was what all the 'guys do.' So, they walked off to a secluded area between two trailers, during a lunch break for the cast and crew, and Haim, innocent and ambitious as he was, allowed himself to be sodomized."
EW: Corey Feldman claims pedophilia top danger for child stars, but won't name names?
Feldman recalls that Haim, 11 years old at the time, said, "I guess we should play around like that, too?"
While Feldman never acted on his friend's suggestion, he did encounter more sexual abuse later on from the adults around him, including an older male Feldman had hired as his assistant who he calls "Ron Crimson" in the book. Crimson allegedly performed oral sex on Feldman after he encouraged a teenaged Feldman to take a cocktail of pills. Feldman writes that in his that in his teen years he was constantly surrounded by pedophiles.
Feldman's childhood was so troubled that he looked to his friend Michael Jackson, introduced to him by director Steven Spielberg, for normalcy. "Michael Jackson's world, crazy as it sounds, had become my happy place," he writes. "Being with Michael brought me back to my innocence. When I was with Michael, it was like being 10 years old again." Feldman stresses in the book that Jackson never once acted inappropriately toward him.
EW: Corey Haim: The Lost Boy
In the introduction, Feldman refuses to disclose the identity of Haim's alleged rapist, who he claims is "one of the most successful people in the entertainment industry." "You can't go around publicly accusing industry titans without expecting to find yourself in the middle of a nasty lawsuit," writes Feldman, "to say nothing of the potential threat to my career, as well as to the personal safety of myself and my son."
Coreyography acts in part as a warning to parents pushing their children into show business. Feldman claimed on a 2011 episode of Nightline and repeats in the book that the "number one problem in Hollywood was, and is, and always will be pedophilia."0.
See the original story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
