About this time last year, many American families were sharing Thanksgiving leftovers and curious conversations about a traffic accident involving the world's most famous golfer.
Almost a year has passed since the Tiger Woods' car accident outside his Florida home that spiraled into a sex scandal that dominated headlines, ended his marriage and caused him to take a break from golf.
While his story last year was filled with scandal, talk around the Thanksgiving table this year may be more about redemption.
"Obviously, this has been a very difficult year for me and my family, on and off the golf course," Woods wrote this week on his official website.
The Thanksgiving-weekend accident last year outside the couple's home in Florida shattered Woods once tightly-controlled image and led to the golfer's admission that he had engaged in multiple affairs during his nearly six-year marriage.
Authorities were alerted of the crash near Woods' Orlando-area home the morning after Thanksgiving.
An initial police report said Woods pulled out of his driveway in a 2009 Cadillac SUV and struck a fire hydrant.
Woods' wife told the police that she used a golf club to break out the rear window of the vehicle, then pulled the golfer from the SUV after she heard the accident from inside their home.
The golfer suffered minor injuries from the single-vehicle accident and was treated and released from a hospital.
But his problems were only beginning.
On November 28, a day later, Woods declines to talk to the Florida highway patrol troopers about the accident. Police say Woods was found on the street unconscious after the crash.
On November 30, Woods releases a statement praising his wife and saying the accident is a "private matter." He declines to talk to Florida highway patrol troopers for a third time.
On December 2, Woods apologizes for "transgressions" that "let his family down" -- the same day a gossip magazine publishes a report alleging he had an affair.
On December 8, Woods' mother-in-law is admitted to a hospital with stomach pains after a 911 call from the golfer's home.
On December 12, Woods announces that he is taking "an indefinite break" from professional golf, according to a statement posted on his website. "I am deeply aware of the disappointment and hurt that my infidelity has caused to so many people, most of all my wife and children," the statement says.
Woods has returned to golf and spoke recently on his website about the changes in his life.
"I got through the year, and I'm in a much better place than I was a year ago and my life has balance," he said.
