For video game fans, many of the gadgets and accessories designed to support today's games are as unique and imaginative as the games themselves.
From inflatable Wii racing karts to iPad joysticks and plastic assault rifles tailor-made for living room juntas, there's no shortage of weird, wild and occasionally even useful peripherals for handheld and set-top systems alike.
Among the hundreds of available gaming gizmos and add-ons are a  coffin-shaped guitar instrument case and  blinged-out chrome plating for consoles. They're great to look at, but they won't enhance your gameplay much.
Here are five recent accessories designed to improve your gaming experience:
G155 ($299.99, http://www.projectgaems.com/) -- A portable game room to go, this carrying case unpacks to reveal a built-in 15.5-inch LED HD screen, stereo speakers and dual 3.5mm headphone jacks that let you annihilate friends or save the universe anywhere you travel.
Pop an Xbox 360 or PlayStation 3 Slim in, hook up the HDMI cable, and assuming you don't mind a little heavy lifting, voila. You can spend family vacations with your head happily buried in "WWE All Stars" or "Killzone 3."
Arcade FightStick Tournament Edition ($159.99, www.madcatz.com) -- Pricey, but infinitely cheaper than springing for an arcade machine, this PS3 and Xbox 360 joystick controller and eight-button pad delivers authentic coin-operated control and precision.
Designed for use with popular fighting games such as "Marvel vs. Capcom 3," it lets you plug in its 13-foot USB connector cable to enjoy customizable button mappings, turbo functionality and that classic quarter-munching feel.
Charge Base for 3DS ($29.99, www.nyko.com) -- Given the Nintendo 3DS handheld 3-D gaming system's anemic 3- to 4- hour battery life, this useful combo charging dock and capacity-boosting rechargeable battery comes in especially handy by offering double the juice.
It's not the most convenient accessory to carry around. But if you're planning on marathon play sessions, it can keep you happily splattering aliens or downing submarines twice as long as usual.
PlayStation Move SharpShooter ($39.99) -- This plastic attachment lets you turn your PlayStation Move motion controller into a full-fledged rifle, theoretically providing greater accuracy and atmosphere in shooter games like the suddenly timely "SOCOM 4: U.S. Navy SEALs."
Go ahead -- screw up your face and do your best "Terminator" impression. There's no denying the temptation to want to place your fingers on its pump-action grip.
Harley Davidson: Road Trip with Accessory Bar ($29.99, www.eagl3.com) -- Of all the goofy gewgaws (e.g. plastic sword, shield, fishing rod, machine gun and jet-ski inserts) offered for Wii and PlayStation 3, we're partial to these motorcycle handlebars from InterWorks Unlimited, Inc.
Crank up "Born to Be Wild," twist the Wii remote to rev up, and you too can join the ranks of balding middle managers who spend their Sundays hitting the road on their virtual hog -- while reclining in a well-worn La-Z-Boy.
