Lyon coach Claude Puel is confident that his team can cause an upset in their European Champions League semifinal first leg against German giants Bayern Munich.
The French side, appearing in the last four of the competition for the first time, are the underdogs as they take on the four-time champions in Munich on Wednesday night.
But having beaten Real Madrid and French champions Bordeaux en route to the semifinal, Puel believes the club have the momentum to make it all the way to the final.
Blog: Will Mourinho the master defeat Guardiola the great?
"It is fantastic for our club to be in the semi-finals," Puel told reporters at a press conference. "But we said it before the (quarter-final) against Bordeaux: why should it end here?
"Bayern are confident, they had a huge win on the weekend (7-0 against Hannover), they are playing well but I still think we have what it takes to trouble them."
Puel said his players had not suffered as an effect of having to travel the 750 kilometers to Munich by road after volcanic ash led to a flying ban.
"You need to be able to adapt," he said. "A bit more massage, a bit more walking and stretching. But I feel we have adapted."
Bayern Munich winger Franck Ribery, who faced Lyon many times during his career in the French league, said his current club would be foolish to underestimate Puel's side.
"It will be very difficult against Lyon because they have a very good team," he said. "We shouldn't allow ourselves to think about the final."
Bayern will be without captain Mark van Bommel and defender Holger Badstuber, who are both suspended after picking up yellow cards in the quarterfinal victory over Manchester United.
But Ribery has shaken off a muscular problem to play, along with Dutchman Arjen Robben, who clinched the victory over United with a stunning late volley at Old Trafford and claimed a hat-trick in the rout of Hannover.
"The Germans are always dangerous in big matches and Bayern just knocked out Manchester United," said Puel. "They have Arjen Robben and Franck Ribery hitting for them again. We know what to expect."
