Alex Ferguson celebrates 25 years as Manchester United manager on Sunday, and the Scotsman has called his reign at Old Trafford a "fairytale."
Ferguson, who turns 70 this month, has overseen United's recent dominance of English football, guiding the Red Devils to 12 English Premier League titles and five FA Cups.
Continental success has also been achieved, with Ferguson leading United to two European Champions League triumphs in 1999 and 2008.
The highlight of the former Scotland coach's reign so far arrived in 1999, when United's Champions League final win over Bayern Munich completed an historic treble which also included Premier League and FA Cup triumphs.
United he stands: The real Fergie
"It's been a really fantastic spell for me and something you don't think is going to happen," Ferguson told the club's official website. "It's been a bit of a fairytale to last so long and I appreciate that."
Ferguson, who arrived at United from Scottish outfit Aberdeen on November 6 1986, was quick to praise the vast array of star players he has been able to work with during a quarter of a century at the club.
"I've been very fortunate to have some of the best players in the game and, when I look back on these players I think about how fortunate I am.
Ferguson's top 25 Manchester United moments
"It's incredible when you look at who's been here - Bryan Robson, Norman Whiteside, Brian McClair, Mark Hughes, Paul Ince, Roy Keane, Eric Cantona. What a collection of fantastic players."
It could all have been very different for United and Ferguson, with the Glasgow native originally planning to retire from football in 2002.
But Ferguson changed his mind, remained in the Old Trafford dugout and last season helped United to a record 19th English title -- overtaking the mark previously set by archrivals Liverpool.
Ferguson refuses to set a date for when he will step aside at United, saying he will remain in the job as long as his health allows.
"I'll continue as long as I feel healthy enough to do it," he said. "In management, things change as the years go on. It's different now even to seven or eight years ago. A lot of things have changed."
United's neighbors Manchester City currently lead England's top flight, five points clear of Ferguson's team.
Former United captain Steve Bruce brings his Sunderland team to Old Trafford for a Premier League clash on Saturday.
