Roger Federer tuned up in perfect style ahead of Wimbledon with a straight sets victory over Alejandro Falla to claim his seventh title at Halle.
The 17-time major champion from Switzerland edged a tight encounter with his Colombian opponent 7-6 (2) 7-6 (3) to win on the grass in Germany.
Federer's seventh title means only at Wimbledon has he had as much success, though he'll be hoping to bag an eighth crown in London later this month.
The pair swapped a break each in the opening set before Federer pulled clear in the tiebreak, the second set following a similar pattern.
"It is great to have won seven times here," Federer the ATP Tour's official website. "It is very special and I hope to come back here next year, where it is a [ATP World Tour] 500-series event.
"I really enjoy winning titles. It is what I play for, to play and receive a standing ovation at the end. I am very pleased with my performance.
"I work hard and travel the tour to win these titles and not lose in the quarters or semifinals. With all the success I have had in the past, I need to aim for titles. I think I deserved the title this week."
Federer's record at Halle now reads 45 wins and just five defeats. The 32-year-old has also taken his tally of Tour wins to 79.
"In the past, when I have played well at Halle I have usually played well at Wimbledon," added Federer.
"They have been two of my most successful tournaments, so I hope that this title will bring me luck again.
"Last year it didn't work out, but it did many times before. So I hope it will be back to the good old days."
It meant Falla missed the chance to become the first Colombian to win an ATP Tour title since Mauricio Hadad in 1995
"It's always tough losing a match, especially a final," said Falla. "I wanted to win the title so badly. But when you play Roger in a final, it is always tough. It was a close match.
"I tried my best and fought for every point. I am happy with the way I played today and the tournament overall. I enjoy playing on the grass.
"This tournament gave me a lot of confidence, having won some tough matches."
At Queen's, Grigor Dimitrov -- known as 'Baby Federer' -- claimed his first grass court crown after defeating Spain's Feliciano Lopez in the final at Queen's club.
Theirs was also a tight affair, the Bulgarian being forced to save a match point before eventually prevailing 6-7(8) 7-6(1) 7-6(6).
Dimitrov, the boyfriend of French Open champion Maria Sharapova, held his nerve as the deciding set also went to a tiebreak, prevailing in a little over two-and-a-half hours.
"(Grigor) never gives up, as he showed today," Lopez told the ATP Tour's official website
"I think when you face players like Grigor, you know that even playing the way I played today there is a chance to lose because he's a great player.
"It's tough to lose when you play such a great match. Overall it was a great week for me. It has been a great preparation for Wimbledon, and hopefully in Eastbourne, next week, I can do well again.
"It's true that I'm feeling great. I'm playing good and hopefully I can continue playing like this for the next two or three weeks."
