A stunning 30-yard strike from Andrea Pirlo sealed victory for AC Milan over Parma on Saturday night.
The 1-0 win sends the 17-time Italian champions top of the league, one point ahead of rivals Inter and Lazio who both play Sunday.
The winning margin could have been bigger had Zlatan Ibrahimovic converted one of several chances that came his way, but Pirlo's curling effort in the 25th minute was enough for Milan to claim all three points.
Defeat for Parma -- their third this season in the league -- leaves them in 16th place and in danger of slipping into the bottom three after Sunday's matches have been completed.
Bottom-placed Udinese recorded their first win of the season when Mehdi Benatia scored in the third minute of second half injury time to beat Cesena 1-0.
In Spain, Valencia beat Athletic Bilbao 2-1 to maintain their unbeaten run in this season's La Liga.
Aritz Aduriz's opened the scoring for the home team in the 11th minute with substitute Vicente all but sealing victory in injury time.
Igor Gabilondo scored from a free-kick two minutes later but Valencia held on for the win. The result puts them four points ahead of their nearest rivals Villarreal and Barcelona at the top of the table.
French striker Florent Sinama Pongolle scored twice in the space of five minutes as 10-man Real Zaragoza came from two behind to salvage a draw 2-2 at home to Sporting Gijon.
Pongolle, on loan from Portuguese side Sporting Lisbon, struck in the 56th and 61st minute to cancel out an own goal from Ivan Obradovic in the first half and a penalty from Gijon winger Diego Castro in the 49th minute.
The penalty was awarded after Zaragoza's Jiri Jarosik brought down Diego Barral in the penalty area, and was shown a red card.
Zaragoza remain bottom of the table, while Sporting Gijon move up to 17th place.
In La Liga's other Saturday fixture, Real Sociedad beat Espanyol 1-0 at home. The win came courtesy of an own goal by Argentine centre-back Juan Forlin in the 85th minute.
Third-placed Barcelona host Real Mallorca on Sunday, Real Madrid will entertain Deportivo La Coruna. Villarreal face Racing Santander.
