Chelsea maintained their unbeaten run in the English Premier League with a 4-2 win over London rivals Tottenham Hotspur at White Hart Lane on Saturday.
The match, which saw Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas face his former club for the first time since Chelsea sacked him in March, sparked into life in the 17th when Gary Cahill struck a stunning volley to give the league leaders the lead.
That's how it stayed for the remainder of the first half before Spurs mounted a comeback in a breathless second half.
William Gallas netted his first goal for Spurs two minutes after the break to bring the home side level before Jermain Defoe turned in Aaron Lennon's cross to give Villas-Boas' new team the lead in the 54th minute.
But Chelsea responded superbly to the setback with Juan Mata leading the fightback with two goals in three minutes.
First, a poor clearance from Gallas fell to the advancing Mata who controlled the ball instantly before guided a low shot past a helpless Brad Friedel.
Chelsea had their noses back in front moments later when Eden Hazard's pass split the Spurs' defence with Mata scurrying through to put the ball in the back of the net.
Spurs attempts to get back on level terms came to nothing and it was Mata once again who finally put the result beyond doubt.
This time, the Spanish international turned provider finding Daniel Sturridge with a low cross which the Englishman side-footed home from close range.
It completed an unhappy day for Villas-Boas against his former employers as well as bringing to an end a four-match winning streak in the league for Spurs.
Chelsea remain at the top of the table with 22 points from a possible 24.
Both Manchester City and Manchester United recorded wins on Saturday to remain four points behind Roberto Di Matteo's side.
A Wayne Rooney own goal in the 11th minute gave Stoke City the lead at Old Trafford before the English international equalized at the other end 16 minutes later.
Robin van Persie and Danny Welbeck then scored either side of the break to give United a two-goal cushion.
Stoke's Michael Kightly halved the deficit in the 58th minute but Rooney scored again seven minutes later to make it 4-2, which is how it stayed.
Edin Dzeko came off the bench to spare City's blushes at West Brom.
Roberto Mancini's side were reduced to 10 men midway through the first half when James Milner was shown a red card for a challenge on Shane Long.
The Irish striker then gave the home side the lead in the 67th minute before Dzeko came to the rescue with two goals in the last ten minutes to seal a last-gasp 2-1 win.
Norwich City recorded their first three points of the season with a battling 1-0 win over Arsenal.
Grant Holt's 19th minute goal -- slotting home after Arsenal keeper Vito Mannone could only parry Alexander Tettey's low drive -- consigned Arsene Wenger's side to their first defeat at Carrow Road since 1984.
The win moves Chris Hughton's team up to 15th with six points while Arsenal are ninth with 12 points.
West Ham United are up to seventh after thrashing struggling Southampton 4-1 at Upton Park.
Liverpool also move up the table to 11th after beating Reading 1-0 at Anfield. Teenager Raheem Sterling scored his first goal for the club which was enough to earn Brendan Rodgers his first league win at home since taking over in the summer.
Swansea City are one place above Liverpool after they beat Wigan 2-1. Fulham beat Aston Villa 1-0 at Craven Cottage to move up to eighth.
