Sen. Rand Paul is appearing in a new wave of ads for Republican Senate candidates in Iowa and New Hampshire less than one week before Election Day.
The Chamber of Commerce, which produces the ads and has featured Paul in a previous round of spots, says it's using the Kentucky Republican as a voice to appeal to independent voters.
And it's not a bad arrangement for the likely White House hopeful: The new ads appear in the first two presidential primary states.
"If you're a freedom-loving, liberty-loving voter, I urge you to get out and vote for Joni Ernst this Tuesday," he says in a spot -- first shared with CNN -- for Iowa's GOP Senate nominee.
He repeats a similar message in a separate ad for Scott Brown in New Hampshire, but adds a special touch for the Granite State's politically-mixed climate.
"If you're a freedom-loving, liberty-loving, leave-me-the-hell-alone voter, I urge you to get out and vote for Scott Brown this Tuesday," Paul says.
The ads appear to have been shot in the same setting as Chamber ads that he cut for GOP Senate nominees in Alaska and North Carolina, two closes races with for potential of a libertarian spoiler.
A Chamber source said the ads "fit into our theme this year of using credible messengers in target races, particularly to help break through the clutter and carry the free enterprise message."
Paul has repeatedly said he'll announce his 2016 decision in the spring. If he decides to run as expected, it could be a big boost for him to get this kind of exposure in Iowa and New Hampshire -- and the blessing of a major mainstream and respected Republican group like the Chamber.
Talking about the first round of ads, he told CNN in New Hampshire earlier this month that he thinks his appeal goes "beyond the Republican Party" and he can be helpful in bringing in independents.
"At the very end, it's that five or 10 percent that are undecided, might vote for a third party, or might vote independent that we really need," he said. "I'm trying hard to let people know that Republicans will do things differently if we elect a Republican majority."
