(CNN Student News) -- May 6, 2014
A terrorist group claims responsibility for a mass kidnapping in Nigeria. We'll follow up on this story in Tuesday's edition of CNN Student News. Also covered: medical headlines concerning MERS and malaria, a Thai celebration fit for a king, and tributes to educators for Teacher Appreciation Week.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might social media be used to raise awareness about an issue? What are the potential benefits and drawbacks of the use of social media for this purpose?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. terrorism
2. constitutional monarchy
3. malaria
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Who has claimed responsibility for the kidnapping of more than 200 girls in Nigeria? What does this group's name mean? How has Nigeria's government responded to the kidnapping? What challenges does it face? Why are the families of these girls frustrated and upset? Where have they turned for help?
2. What is MERS? Who has been diagnosed with this disease in the U.S.? Where had he traveled recently? How is he doing? What is a likely origin of this virus?
3. What country's king has reigned the longest? What type of government does this country have? What evidence from the video suggests that this king is revered among his people?
4. What is malaria? How is it transmitted? Where is it most common? What are its symptoms?
5. How do most bug repellents work? What is different about the bug spray being developed at Vanderbilt University? What is Anopheles gambiae? What disease does this insect transmit? If the scientists at Vanderbilt are successful with their new product, how might its sale in developed countries help people in poorer countries?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you think about the social media effort to rescue Nigeria's kidnapped girls? Do you think it is an effective way to bring attention to the cause? Explain. Do you think that this effort could lead to their rescue? Why or why not?
2. What does your education mean to you? Why do you think that some young people, especially young women, are willing to risk their lives for an education? What impact might an educated population have on a country? What do you think can be done to promote education for young men and women around the world?
3. In the video, we see a different approach to repelling insects as a way to help prevent disease. Can you think of any other unique ways of preventing disease? Explain. How would you test your idea to see if it might work?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
