(CNN Student News) -- June 24, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Atlanta, Georgia • Washington, D.C.
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
JORDAN BIENSTOCK, WRITER, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Hi, I'm Jordan Bienstock, and this is the latest summer edition of CNN Student News.
This week, we're taking you behind the scenes to answer a question we get asked a lot around this time of year: What does CNN Student News do over the summer? Let's go find out!
First up, we're gonna talk to the executive producer of CNN Student News, Donna Krache.
DONNA KRACHE, EXECUTIVE PRODUCER, CNN STUDENT NEWS: During the school year, I'm in charge of the content for CNN Student News: the program and the website. In fact, I'm in charge of the content throughout the year. But I like to take a look ahead in the summer. So, one thing we do a lot of here is planning.
You can't predict the news, but you can tell when there are some important events that you're going to have to focus on. For example, the election in 2012 is going to be very important. But we also know that, you know, Black History Month in February and Women's History Month in March, Financial Literacy Month are all months that we like to focus on here at CNN Student News.
There are also people who come to Atlanta during the summer, and they'll send us e-mails and say, "We're coming. Is there anybody from Student News we could say hello to?" And if we're here, we'd love to come downstairs and say hi and do a little meet-and-greet with you. So, if you're coming to Atlanta, let us know.
BIENSTOCK: Next up, we're going to check in with our producer, Jeremy Dunn.
JEREMY DUNN, PRODUCER, CNN STUDENT NEWS: My job during the school year is deciding what news stories we're gonna cover, what stories we're gonna air, and what elements we need to tell those stories. What video, what sound, what graphics? So during the summer, what I'm doing is I'm looking back at what we do -- the whole show -- and seeing what works, what doesn't, what can we do better. And working with the graphic artist, the video editor, picking new music, deciding what we can do to freshen up the show so that it's interesting for you guys to watch.
BIENSTOCK: This week, we're going behind the scenes to see what the CNN Student News staff is working on this summer, and the next person we're going to talk to is our associate producer, Tomeka Jones.
TOMEKA JONES, ASSOCIATE PRODUCER, CNN STUDENT NEWS: So, this summer I'll be focusing on some more Career Connections segments that you may have seen throughout the 2010-2011 school year. You're going to get to see the behind-the-scenes of an editor who puts together some cool stuff, not just for our show, but for several other shows.
But on top of that, I'm going to be working with teaming up with different departments, like CNN International and CNN en Espanol. So that way, for the next school year -- for the 2011-2012 school year -- we can try to get more guests, and we can try to diversify our level of guests that come on our show.
BIENSTOCK: Now, there's one person on the CNN Student News staff who doesn't need an introduction from me.
CARL AZUZ, ANCHOR, CNN STUDENT NEWS: All right, you know what I do during the school year. But I have a second job here at CNN many of you may not know about. It's done right here in CNN's main studio, and I'm usually on between 12 noon and 1 p.m. Eastern speaking with CNN's Suzanne Malveaux. I deliver reports that go in depth and give a little more detail about some of the stories in the news. So, if you're around between 12 and 1 p.m., turn on CNN Newsroom; I might see you there.
And another thing I'll be doing over the summer is I might be filing some reports from Washington, D.C. So, I'm looking forward to going to the nation's capital and doing a little work from there.
BIENSTOCK: Next up is going to be our web producer, Jeff DeHayes.
JEFF DEHAYES, WEB PRODUCER, CNN STUDENT NEWS: During the school year, I'm responsible for CNNStudentNews.com. I update the page. I make sure the show is available for streaming. I make sure that the show's available for podcast. During the summer, I'm working on some behind-the-scenes things: possibly redesigning CNNStudentNews.com, redesigning our daily e-mail. And I'm working on being a cameraman; carrying the camera for all of these interviews.
BIENSTOCK: The next person we're gonna talk to is one of the writers on the CNN Student News staff: John Martin.
JOHN MARTIN, WRITER, CNN STUDENT NEWS: During the school year, I put together the Daily Discussion and the weekly Newsquiz for you all to use in your classroom. I was just at a conference where I presented Student News to teachers, showing them how to use our program in their classroom, as well as how we use social networking to interact with you all.
Right now, I'm putting together a video and presentations for a conference that we're hosting here at CNN. We're bringing in students from all over the state of Georgia, so that they can come here and learn about the world of journalism.
BIENSTOCK: Before we go, I should probably explain who I am. During the school year, I'm the one who writes the CNN Student News show every day. I'm also the department copyeditor. So, you know how your teachers take a red pen to your work sometimes? I do that, but I do it professionally, and with red type on the computer, not a red pen.
Over the summer, I'm obviously anchoring one of our summer shows, and I'm producing some of our shows as well. I'm also doing some writing for CNN.com. It's a chance to do some extra stuff in different areas and take on new challenges. And finally, because I'm the one who has to come up with all those puns throughout the school year, I'm trying to plan for every possible pun scenario you can think of.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Animals!
BIENSTOCK: I can BEARly think of any ideas. A jungle cat on the loose? You must be LION!
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Food!
BIENSTOCK: A donut-eating competition is no holes barred. Lettuce has a bad attitude, but only because it's at a rough-age.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Seasons!
BIENSTOCK: Nothing SPRINGS to mind. That's a WINTER remember. It's AUTUMNatic.
One thing's for sure: when it comes to puns, SUMMER better than others. That's gonna wrap things up for this week. Make sure you check out all of our summer shows at CNNStudentNews.com. I'm Jordan Bienstock. We'll see you later.
