The parents of North West have made it official.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West tied the knot at Fort di Belvedere in Florence, Italy, on Saturday, Kardashian's publicist told CNN.
People reported Kardashian was walked down the aisle by Bruce Jenner while Andrea Bocelli sang "Con te Partiró"; and Kris Jenner was seen in the front row wiping her eyes during the ceremony. Guests reportedly broke into applause twice during the ceremony: first when the couple kissed and when the newlyweds were presented.
The wedding capped off a weekend of extravagant European affairs, starting with a brunch hosted by fashion designer Valentino in Paris on Friday.
Later that evening, hundreds of guests were invited to the Palace of Versailles for a private tour and a surprise performance by Lana Del Ray. According to E!, the couple then flew guests to Florence for the wedding ceremony.
The city has special meaning to them; Kanye said they conceived their daughter, North, there "among the masterpieces of the Renaissance.
This is the third marriage for Kardashian and West's first. The couple got engaged in October 2013, as seen on TV, after Kardashian gave birth to their daughter. But theirs was apparently a love affair years in the making.
Reportedly it took the rapper nine years to finally win the woman of his dreams, but it was in March 2012 when they appeared together at Paris Fashion Week together that they were officially an item. Kardashian told Oprah Winfrey during a 2012 interview that she didn't know what took them so long.
"I think we've always had an attraction for each other, but we've always been in either other relationships or it just wasn't the right timing," she said. "One day, I don't know, it just happened. It kind of like took me by surprise even."
In December 2012, Kardashian announced via her blog that she was pregnant with West's child.
"It's true," Kardashian wrote. "Kanye and I are expecting a baby. We feel so blessed and lucky and wish that in addition to both of our families, his mom and my dad could be here to celebrate this special time with us."
She gave birth to her daughter in June 2013 and Kardashian praised West's parenting skills during an interview with talk-show host Ellen DeGeneres after the rapper proposed to her.
"He is honestly the most amazing dad," Kardashian said. "He just loves her so much."
West clearly appreciates the family that they have now made legally official.
"Family time -- it's what Kim gave me," he told the BBC in September 2013. "She gave me everything. She gave me a family. She gave me a support system."
Kim and Kanye take Vogue
