(CNN Student News) -- November 4, 2013
The new week begins with reports on a shooting at a Los Angeles airport and an increasing wave of violence in Iraq. We look at some of Obamacare's potential benefits and drawbacks for millions of Americans, and we discuss a symbolic event in the U.S. Northeast. We also explain an annual festival celebrated by India's largest religious group.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might current U.S. news coverage of Iraq differ from coverage when American combat troops were still there?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Transportation Security Administration (TSA)
2. deductible
3. Diwali
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is known about a shooting at Los Angeles International Airport last Friday?
2. When did the last remaining U.S. combat troops leave Iraq? According to the program, what are some reasons for the current violence in the nation?
3. Why might millions of Americans be required to get new health insurance plans? What do White House officials say about the new coverage? Why might there be opposition to it?
Discussion Questions:
1. What challenges do you think authorities face when trying to protect people in a public place? How might these challenges depend on whether the venue is indoors or outdoors?
2. Do you think the violence in Iraq can be stopped? If so, how? If not, why not? What do you think the reporter meant when she said that Iraq "is a nation where violence and politics go hand in hand"?
3. What do you think New York City marathon organizers took into account before canceling last year's race? What do you think that holding the race this year meant to organizers, runners, race fans and the city itself?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Los Angeles, California; New York City
Asia
Iraq; India
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
