Rain caused major delays at the French Open on Thursday, but there was still time for the hopes of former champion Ana Ivanovic and veteran giantkiller Kimiko Date Krumm to be washed away.
Fourth seed Jelena Jankovic and fifth seed Elena Dementieva both battled into the third round along with China's No. 11 Li Na, but Polish eighth seed Agnieszka Radwanska, No. 21 Vera Zvonareva and No. 32 Kateryna Bondarenko all crashed out.
World No. 1 Serena Williams was shunted out of the schedule due to the delays, and will play her second-round tie against Germany's Julia Goerges on Friday.
Pin-up girl Ivanovic, who climbed to No. 1 in the women's tennis rankings after winning the title in 2008, finally came onto a wet Court No. 1 at 3.42 p.m. local time (1342 GMT).
Should the French Open leave Roland Garros?
But her bid to recapture the form that has deserted her in the past year ended in a damp squib as the Serbian crashed to a 6-3 6-0 defeat in her second-round match against 28th seed Alisa Kleybanova.
The Russian has reached the last 32 of the clay-court Grand Slam event for the first time, and will next face Kazakhstan's Yaroslava Shvedova -- who upset Radwanska 7-5 6-3 following a further rain delay.
Men: Murray and Roddick overcome delays
Ivanovic, who has slumped to 42nd in the rankings, made a strong start as she took a 2-0 lead -- but Kleybanova then won the next five games and whitewashed her opponent in the second set to win just over an hour.
"I don't think I played that bad, actually. For a while she didn't miss a ball," the 22-year-old Ivanovic told reporters. "It was a combination of a few things, but she played well today.
"You know, I love this tournament. It's still my favorite tournament. I think I'm on the right path, and I'm doing lots of things right. I have a plan in place and a good team. It's going to take some time. No doubt I'm on the right way."
The 39-year-old Date Krumm stunned last year's losing finalist Dinara Safina in her first appearance at the tournament since 1996, but her win over the ninth-seeded Russian took its toll.
The 1995 semifinalist, who ended a 12-year retirement in 2008, was hampered by a calf injury as she lost 6-0 6-3 to Australia's Jarmila Groth.
"Yesterday I had an MRI. The doctor said don't play and that it's too risky," the former world No. 4 said. "I don't like to retire or not play. I decided before the match, I didn't want to do that. I just wanted to try my best and continue. That's why I played."
Groth will next play Russia-born Australian resident Anastasia Rodionova, who defeated her former compatriot Zvonareva 6-4 6-4.
Jankovic, a former No. 1, was taken to three sets against Estonian qualifier Kaia Kanepi before defeating the No. 118 6-2 3-6 6-4.
The Serbian will play 27th seed Alona Bondarenko in the third round after the Ukrainian won 6-3 6-3 against Slovakia's Magdalena Rybarikova.
Dementieva progressed with a 6-2 7-6 (7-3) win over Spain's Anabel Medina Garrigues, setting up a last-32 clash with Canada's Aleksandra Wozniak, who ousted Kateryna Bondarenko 6-4 6-1.
Na defeated France's Stephanie Cohen-Aloro 6-2 6-2 and will next play Italian 17th seed Francesca Schiavone.
Three other second-round matches were still undecided when play finally came to a halt.
Four-time champion Justine Henin, seeded 22nd in her comeback appearance at the event, led Klara Zakopalova of the Czech Republic 6-3 3-2.
Another former world No. 1, Maria Sharapova, was ahead 6-3 2-2 against Henin's fellow Belgian Kirsten Flipkens.
Home hope Marion Bartoli, the 13th seed, trailed 6-5 in her match against compatriot Olivia Sanchez.
