Teachers and Parents: Watch with your students or record "Black in America 2" when it airs on CNN on Wednesday, July 22 at 9 p.m. ET and Thursday, July 23 at 8 p.m. ET. By recording the documentaries, you agree that you will use the documentaries for educational viewing purposes for a one-year period only. No other rights of any kind or nature whatsoever are granted, including, without limitation, any rights to sell, publish, distribute, post online or distribute in any other medium or forum, or use for any commercial or promotional purpose.
(CNN Student News) --         With "Black in America 2," CNN deepens its investigation of the most challenging issues facing African-Americans. CNN's Soledad O'Brien journeys to South Africa and criss-crosses the U.S., reporting on groundbreaking solutions that are transforming the black experience in America. O'Brien uncovers pioneers who are making a difference: people inspiring volunteerism, programs that are improving access to quality health care and education, and leaders working to address financial struggles and develop strong families. Before and after viewing these programs, use our free Discussion Questions and Learning Activity to facilitate a conversation with your middle and high school students.
Black in America 2: Part I - Today's Pioneers  Program overview: In "Today's Pioneers," O'Brien profiles community organizers across the country who are facilitating progress at a local level. These pioneers address health, education, and other critical needs of the black community. Black in America 2: Today's Pioneers airs in HDTV on Wednesday, July 22 at 9:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. EDT. Click here to access Discussion Questions for Black in America 2: Today's Pioneers.
Black in America 2: Part II - Tomorrow's Leaders  Program overview: "Tomorrow's Leaders" focuses on people who are developing future African-American leaders. The importance of education, mentoring programs and diverse experiences are explored as black Americans strive for success in a competitive world. Black in America 2: Tomorrow's Leaders airs in HDTV on Thursday, July 23 at 8:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. EDT. Click here to access Discussion Questions for Black in America 2: Tomorrow's Leaders.
Before-Viewing Discussion Questions Before watching Black in America 2, ask students to share their responses to these questions:
Black in America 2: Part I - Today's Pioneers  Post-Viewing Questions: After viewing the first part of Black in America 2, offer these questions for student consideration and discussion. There are specific questions for each new story within Black in America 2.
Marriage
Triple Negative Breast Cancer
Project Choice
Project Brotherhood
The Harlem Children's Zone
Tyler Perry
Black in America 2: Part II - Tomorrow's Leaders  Post-Viewing Questions: After viewing the second part of Black in Amertica 2, offer these questions for student consideration and discussion. There are specific questions for each new story within Black in America 2.
Journey for Change
Management Leadership for Tomorrow
Tuxedo Ball
Capital Prep
Post-Viewing Summary Discussion Questions After watching Black in America 2, use these general questions to facilitate a discussion focused on the issues and solutions raised in the documentaries.
Post-Viewing Learning Activity
Discuss the success stories you have seen in Black in America 2 and your reactions to them. Then, look around your community for other solutions to the problems facing African-Americans today. Is there a community or church leader, an organization or a business trying to improve the quality of life for others where you live? Conduct interviews with leaders and participants in these programs to help others see what can be learned from their experiences. Produce a video, an online news article or a Web special to share with others, that highlights the positive work being done to address issues facing black Americans.
