Real Madrid defender Christoph Metzelder fully expects to be leaving the  Spanish giants next summer.
Metzelder, whose contract is up at the end of the season, has played just one Spanish Primera Liga match all campaign.
And the 29-year-old admits the Bernabeu giants are unlikely to offer him a new deal.
"All us players have hope but you also have to be realistic and I don't think the club will renew my contract," the Germany international told reporters.
"These have been two-and-a-half complicated years for me, but I don't want to talk about that. It is the coach who makes these decisions and as a player I have to accept it.
"I am professional and for that reason I will work until the end of the season and we'll see if I return to playing or not."
Metzelder insists, however, that whatever happens he will not be leaving Madrid in the winter transfer window.
"I don't think it's the right date to change clubs," he added. "Moreover, in Germany the teams will not pay a transfer for a player who five months later will be free. In any case, I am a player who always completes his contracts."
Meanwhile, Real Madrid have denied they have received a mega-offer from Manchester City owner Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan to buy them out.
Reports in Spain suggested the Sheikh was set to shell out one billion euros for Madrid and was due to meet club president Florentino Perez early in the new year for discussions.
However, Madrid insist the story is completely unfounded.
"Real Madrid wishes to inform that Real Madrid president Mr. Florentino Perez has had a great friendship for many years with his Highness, Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan," read a statement on the club's official Web site.
"And that the so-called interest and the existence of any offer to acquire Real Madrid are false.
"His Highness has always shown tremendous respect for the club and understands that Real Madrid belongs to its members."
Sheikh Mansour, who is reportedly a Real Madrid supporter, is president of Abu Dhabi's Al Jazira Club, where he set up a twinning agreement with the Spanish giants in 2005.
