(EW.com) -- AMC has ordered two new drama pilots with sky-high concepts and historical settings from producers of well-known shows.
The first is "Halt & Catch Fire," which depicts the personal computing boom in the 1980s. But instead of being set in all-too-familiar Silicon Valley, the setting is Texas' "Silicon Prairie" (which generally refers to the tech community in the Dallas and Fort Worth suburbs).
EW.com: 'Revolution' creator talks fall finale, says second half is better than first
Characters will include a fictional visionary, an engineer and a prodigy whose "innovations directly confront the corporate behemoths of the time." The drama is created by Chris Cantwell and Chris Rodgers, with Mark Johnson and Melissa Bernstein ("Breaking Bad") as executive producers.
The second is a Revolutionary War drama called "Turn" that's based on the book "Washington's Spies" by Alexander Rose. It's set in the summer of 1778 and tells the story of New York farmer Abe Woodhull, "who bands together with a group of childhood friends to form The Culper Ring, an unlikely group of spies who turn the tide in America's fight for independence."
"Turn" is written by showrunner Craig Silverstein ("Nikita") and executive produced by Barry Josephson ("Bones").
EW.com: 'Key & Peele' renewed for third season, thanks to Obama
"These additional pilot orders demonstrate AMC's investment in our original scripted programming," said Susie Fitzgerald, AMC's SVP of scripted development and current programming. "Both of these projects take the audience into unique worlds through compelling characters told with an original voice. We are so fortunate to be working with such exceptional talent on both of these projects."
The projects will contend for series orders against two previously announced projects, Detroit cop drama "Low Winter Sun" and the "Untitled LaGravenese/Tony Goldwyn project," both of which recently completed production.
See the full story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
