Amanda Knox and former boyfriend Rafael Sollecito are killers and the evidence proves it, a prosecutor insisted Friday in wrapping up her statement in the duo's appeal of their 2009 murder convictions.
Knox and Sollecito were convicted of killing Knox's former roommate, Meredith Kercher, in a bloody crime that left the victim half-naked with her throat slashed.
Knox's attorneys argued in their closing arguments Thursday that police had made numerous mistakes investigating the crime and that evidence didn't support the convictions.
But prosecutor Manuela Comodi said the evidence is clear, from bloody footprints with particular characteristics that match the two to the very spot where Knox's DNA was found on a kitchen knife believed by investigators to be the murder weapon.
"They are young, but so was Meredith. They've murdered. And they have killed for nothing. And for this they must be condemned to the maximum sentence," Comodi said.
The hearing was expected to continue Friday with an attorney for Kercher's family addressing the court. No ruling is expected until Monday, when Knox and Sollecito are expected to give final statements, according to the judge.
At Friday's hearing, prosecutor Giuliano Mignini said Knox and Sollecito tried to blame the killing on another co-defendant, Rudy Guede, because Guede is black. Guede was also convicted in the case and is already serving a 16-year sentence.
Comodi, showed jurors a photograph of a bloody footprint found in the bathroom of the home were Kercher was killed. There was no way the footprint was Guede's as defense attorneys had contended, Comodi argued. Comodi said experts have concluded that the footprint was not Guede's and probably was Sollecito.
She also told the court that just because the footprint was found "not usable" for positive identification, it doesn't mean that they are "non usable'" when you can do a process of elimination.
Comodi also used her microphone to demonstrate the how the location where Knox's DNA was found on the presumed murder weapon -- at the junction between the blade and the handle -- suggests a stabbing motion, rather than a cutting motion.
On Thursday, Knox's attorneys gave their final arguments to counter prosecutors' portrayal of her as a cunning "femme fatale."
Lawyer Carlo Dalla Vedova told the jury "that the only possible decision to take is that of absolving Amanda Knox," as he wrapped up his closing argument.
He said the court had seen no trace of Amanda Knox in the room where the murder took place.
Another one of Knox's lawyers, Luciano Ghirga, said she was "very afraid but her heart is full of hope" that she will be freed.
Her "image was massacred" by the media and the attacks on her character started before the trial, he said, adding that he considered her as a daughter.
Concluding an emotional appearance, he appealed to the jury to put themselves in the shoes of Knox's family -- a counterpoise to the words of appeals court prosecutor Giancarlo Costagliola, who asked the jury to put themselves in the shoes of Kercher's family at the start of the closing arguments a week ago.
The "clan Knox" -- as Knox's family have been referred to -- are not part of some rumored U.S. conspiracy to put pressure on the Italian courts to release her, Ghirga said. Rather, "they are parents and they deserve respect."
The lawyer also praised the court's work, saying he felt Knox's rights had finally been respected.
Urging the jury not to let innocent people stay in jail, Vedova earlier detailed what he called many "mistakes" made in the investigation into Kercher's death.
When Knox was arrested and interrogated, she was not allowed a translator and was discouraged from getting a lawyer, Vedova said.
"'That night Amanda Knox's right to defend herself was denied," he said. "She was just a young girl, first time out of the country. She didn't speak Italian."
Vedova argued that some of the DNA evidence presented by the prosecution should be thrown out.
He said some material was contaminated as a result of poor practice by police, including supposed traces of mixed blood in the bathroom sink shared by the two girls. The prosecution's use of alleged bloody footprints in their case was also wrong, he said.
As for the knife used to kill Kercher, a key piece of evidence, Vedova told the court there was a "concentration of nothingness, a fantasy" in the prosecution's arguments.
He ridiculed a theory that Sollecito had not disposed of the knife because he was concerned his landlady would notice it was missing, asking: "What kind of a killer would think about this after committing a murder?"
Knox and Sollecito were convicted in 2009. Knox was sentenced to 26 years in prison, while Sollecito got 25.
CNN's Hada Messia contributed to this report.
