(CNN Student News) -- September 18, 2013
As the investigation into Monday's shooting at the Washington Navy Yard moves forward, Americans pause to remember the victims of the attack. CNN Student News reports on the latest developments, and then we head to Italy to witness the largest salvage operation of its kind. We also examine the threat of so-called "superbugs," and we meet a young artist who uses her talent to help others.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might people who've survived a natural disaster want to talk to the news media? What considerations should journalists take into account when interviewing survivors of natural disasters?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. moment of silence
2. parbuckling
3. antibiotic resistance
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. How are people honoring the victims of the Washington Navy Yard shooting?
2. Describe the process being used to salvage the Costa Concordia cruise ship.
3. What two state flags did a young artist incorporate into her painting about "Superstorm" Sandy?
Discussion Questions:
1. How might a young person have a different perspective on a natural disaster than his or her parents? How might their priorities be different when recovering? What do you think would be most helpful for the people who experienced flooding in Colorado?
2. Why do you think the CDC is concerned about "superbugs"? What actions, if any, might the medical community take in response to the CDC's concerns over these bacteria? How large a role do you think individuals have in preventing the spread of infection?
3. What were your impressions of the paintings created by the young artist seen in the program? Do you think the public reacts differently when young people make successful contributions to their community? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Washington, D.C.; Colorado
Europe
Italy
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
