A report detailing the CIA's controversial interrogation and detention program after the 9/11 terror attacks will be delayed over the issue of redactions, Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Dianne Feinstein said Tuesday.
Congressional sources in each party had previously said the report could have been released as early as this week.
"After further review of the redacted version of the executive summary, I have concluded the redactions eliminate or obscure key facts that support the report's findings and conclusions. Until these redactions are addressed to the committee's satisfaction, the report will not be made public," Feinstein said in a written statement.
"I am sending a letter today to the President laying out a series of changes to the redactions that we believe are necessary prior to public release. The White House and the intelligence community have committed to working through these changes in good faith. This process will take some time, and the report will not be released until I am satisfied that all redactions are appropriate," she wrote.
The document that will be released is a nearly 700-page summary of the full 6,800-page report that was approved a year and a half ago by a committee sharply divided along party lines.
Senators on the committee have indicated the report is critical of the CIA's treatment of terrorism suspects, saying it amounted to torture, something CIA officials have denied. It also finds that those harsh interrogation techniques did not help disrupt future terrorist attacks as many in the intelligence community have said.
After the committee voted this spring to release a declassified version to the public, the report was sent to the intelligence community and the White House so classified and other sensitive information could be redacted.
The report's creation has been highly controversial, with the CIA director apologizing and admitting the agency spied on computers used by Senate Intelligence Committee staffers who prepared the extensive report.
According to an administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, a "constructive dialogue" with the Senate Intelligence Committee about the report is already underway.
"The bottom line is that the United States must never again make the mistakes documented in this report. I believe the best way to accomplish that is to make public our thorough documentary history of the CIA's program. That is why I believe taking our time and getting it right is so important, and I will not rush this process," Feinstein said.
'Shocking' report on CIA interrogation closer to public release
CNN's Dana Bash and Evan Perez contributed to this report.
