Bayern Munich's 10-match winning run came to a halt on Saturday with a 0-0 draw at Hoffenheim that saw goalkeeper Manuel Neuer go past 1,000 minutes without conceding a goal.
The Germany international, who signed from Schalke in pre-season, kept his 11th consecutive clean sheet as Bayern maintained a three-point lead after eight league rounds.
Second-placed Werder Bremen can join the 22-time Bundesliga champions on 19 points with a victory at Hanover on Sunday, but Bayern have a far superior goal difference ahead of the international break.
Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes was happy with the result following the midweek Champions League win at home to Manchester City.
"We started well and had the match under control for the first 20 minutes, but Hoffenheim ran hard, showed lots of fighting spirit and seized the initiative," he said.
"The draw's the right result, in my opinion. We were magnificent last Tuesday, and we've expended a lot of physical effort in recent weeks. One or two of my players simply weren't sharp this afternoon, but that's normal. We gave a battling display, we were very smart, and we've kept another clean sheet."
Third-placed Borussia Monchengladbach also have 16 points after a 1-0 defeat at lowly Freiburg.
Johannes Flum scored the only goal from long range in the 19th minute to lift Freiburg out of the bottom three.
Defending champions Borussia Dortmund moved up to fourth, above Stuttgart, Hoffeheim and Bayer Leverkusen on goal difference, after a 4-0 home win that dropped promoted Augsburg to rock bottom.
Poland striker Robert Lewandowski scored a hat-trick and playmaker Mario Gotze added the other as Dortmund bounced back from the midweek Champions League defeat by Marseille.
Bayer Leverkusen followed up the midweek European win over Genk with another home victory, beating Wolfsburg 3-1.
Gonzalo Castro opened the scoring in the 14th minute before Mario Mandzukic leveled for the Wolves just before the hour mark.
Erin Derdiyok restored Leverkusen's lead six minutes later and Stefan Kiessling sealed Bayer's fourth win in the league near the end.
Hertha Berlin moved up to mid-table with a 3-0 home win over Cologne as 19-year-old striker Pierre-Michel Lasogga scored twice and Brazilian midfielder Raffael added the third before halftime.
Nuremberg and Mainz shared the points in a six-goal thriller that ended with Tomas Pekhart equalizing for the home side with eight minutes to play.
Visiting Mainz had trailed to early goals from Markus Feulner and Robert Mak, but led seven minutes after the break through Nico Bungert, Maxim Choupo-Moting and Andreas Ivanschnitz.
On Friday, Stuttgart joined Hanover and Schalke on 12 points with a 2-0 win at struggling Kaiserslautern, who dropped into the bottom three after Saturday's results.
