Bayern Munich are through to the group stages of the Champions League after a 1-0 win at Swiss side FC Zurich gave them a 3-0 aggregate success in their play-off second leg.
A strong Bayern side, featuring eight members of the Germany national side, secured their place in the last 32 courtesy of an early strike from Mario Gomez.
Gomez was left unmarked in the area to finish off a flowing move involving Toni Kroos and Thomas Mueller, for the only goal of the game in the seventh minute.
Bayern -- who will be hosting the final of the competition in May 2012 -- now join compatriots Borussia Dortmund and Bayer Leverkusen in the main draw.
Four other second round ties were played on Tuesday, with Spanish side Villarreal also sealing their place in the group stage with a 3-0 win over Odense of Denmark, for a 3-1 aggregate success.
Highly-rated Italian striker Giuseppe Rossi netted a close range double, the second coming via a superb curling right-wing cross from Ruben Cani.
Substitute Carlos Marchena added a third after goalkeeper Stefan Wessels fumbled his long-range shot, but a bad-tempered second half saw each side have a player sent off, with the home side losing Borja Valero for head-buttting Andreas Johansson in the stomach.
Dinamo Zagreb are also through to the group stages, but they were given a scare by Malmo of Sweden.
Zagreb side led 4-1 from the first leg in Croatia, but Malmo won 2-0 on the night, just failing to get the third goal that would have seen them progress on the away goals rule.
Belgian side Genk beat Maccabi Haifa of Israel 2-1 on the night, a result that left the sides tied at 3-3 on aggregate.
The scoreline remained the same through extra time, but Genk prevailed 4-1 on penalties to seal their place.
Brazilian striker Ailton scored twice, with the decisive goal coming three minutes from time, to give Cypriot side APOEL Nicosia a 3-1 victory over Wisla Krakow of Poland for a 3-2 aggregate success.
There is a consolation prize for the losing teams with a place in the group stages of the Europa League.
