Indian authorities flooded the streets of Srinagar with security forces Thursday to quell four days of violence sparked by the death of a schoolboy.
Authorities were attempting to disperse anti-India protesters Sunday when a tear gas shell hit the 13-year-old boy, Whamiq Farooq Wani, in the head and killed him as he played cricket in a stadium, protesters say.
While a formal curfew has not been declared, security forces have been keeping people off the streets.
Police said having security forces deployed has kept down violence over the last four days.
A senior police officer said more than 100 people, including members of the Indian security forces, were wounded in the violent clashes between the Muslim protesters and security forces -- who used tear gas and baton charges to disperse the mobs.
Two young protesters were hit by tear gas and smoke shells in Wednesday's violence in the old city, and hospital sources said their conditions are serious.
Clashes and incidents of stone-throwing by anti-India protesters continued to be reported from various points in Kashmir Thursday.
Srinagar, the capital city, remained shut along with other towns in protest of the teenaged boy's death. Shops, businesses and government offices were closed.
Indian police and paramilitary troops, as well as the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), erected barricades at road intersections in Srinagar's old city to cut off pedestrian and vehicular traffic, witnesses said.
"The people were not allowed to go out of their homes to buy milk and other essential items this morning. The security forces are enforcing tight restrictions in our area," said resident Ayub Zargarc reached by telephone.
The security restrictions were not as stringent outside the old city, where some vehicular and pedestrian movement was seen on the streets patrolled by the Indian police.
"Barring a few stone-pelting incidents, the overall situation in Kashmir remained peaceful today," Farooq Ahmad, inspector general of police in the Kashmir zone, told CNN.
Authorities arrested two senior leaders of the pro-dialogue moderate separatist conglomerate All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) and placed its chairman, Mirwaiz Moulvi Umar Farooq, under house arrest today, according to police. Authorities said they were arrested to prevent them from fomenting trouble in the city.
