Martin Kaymer overcame adverse weather and fading light to secure his first tour triumph since 2011 at The Players Championship at TCP Sawgrass.
The 29-year-old German was on the 14th green and three shots ahead of second-placed Jim Furyk at 15-under-par when play was suspended due to heavy rain and thunder late on Sunday.
A double bogey on the 15th when play resumed 90 minutes later, however, made for a tense finish.
But Kaymer held par and his nerve with a monster putt on the 17th, a score he matched at the 18th as darkness descended to secure a 13-under-par one shot victory.
"It was difficult to come back after a little break," he told Sky Sports as he reached the clubhouse.
"You are really disappointed when they call it ... and then you're a little cold."
"I made a couple of wrong decisions on 15 and 16 but what a putt on 17."
Kaymer had golf's led "fifth major" all week having carded a record equaling round of 63 on Thursday.
But he was clawed back by the young American, Jordan Spieth, on Saturday and the pair started level on Sunday at 13-under-par.
Spieth, who lit up the Masters where he finished in a tie for second earlier this year, had not dropped a shot all week on the challenging TPC Sawgrass course but came unstuck at the fifth hole Sunday where he carded his first bogey.
The 20-year-old Texan then dropped two further shots on the eighth and the tenth and appeared to grow frustrated as the day wore on, falling away to finish in a tie for fourth with England's Justin Rose.
Furyk was coolness personified by comparison, shooting six birdies in a round of 66 to move into second place give himself a chance at 12-under-par as Kaymer headed back out onto the course.
Alas, it was not to be as Kaymer held his nerve to take the TCP glass trophy and $1.8 million first prize.
Spieth's disappointing final round meant Spain's Sergio Garcia was able to sneak into third position with a birdie at the last.
Elsewhere, Adam Scott failed to overtake Tiger Woods atop the world rankings after a final round of 73 ensured he finished outside the top 30.
The Australian required at least a top 16 finish to become world No. 1 this week but will now likely claim the top spot next week without playing due to the way the rankings are calculated.
