Atlanta (CNN)More family members are coming to Atlanta to see Bobbi Kristina Brown in the hospital.
On Friday, grandmother Cissy Houston arrived at Emory University Hospital, a source close the family told CNN.
She's the mother of the late musical superstar Whitney Houston, Bobbi Kristina's mother. Other family members, including Bobbi Kristina's father, singer Bobby Brown, have been in Atlanta for days.
Bobbi Kristina, 21, was found facedown in a bathtub full of water in her Atlanta area home last Saturday. The Roswell police spokeswoman said Brown was "unresponsive, meaning not breathing, no heartbeat."
Doctors have placed her in a medically induced coma, a source close to the family said soon after she was hospitalized. The status of her brain function won't be known until sedatives are reduced, the source told CNN.
A week after she was rushed to the hospital, details of her condition are scare. Sources close to the family say she opened her eyes briefly last Monday and also suffered seizures that same day. It was not immediately clear what medical significance these reported events have in Brown's case.
Meanwhile, the three-year anniversary of Whitney Houston's death approaches.
On February 11, 2012, she was found dead in a bathtub at the Beverly Hilton hotel near Los Angeles hours before she was to attend a pre-Grammy Awards party.
A coroner ruled her death an accidental drowning, with heart disease and cocaine use listed as contributing factors. Brown is her only child.
After Houston's death, Bobbi Kristina talked of pursuing a career in acting and music, just like her mother.
In 2012, she reportedly lobbied for a role in a planned biopic of her mother's life. Lifetime's "Whitney," which was directed by actress Angela Bassett, debuted in January 2015, but the Houston family was not involved.
Concerns that she may have substance abuse issues, as her mother did, intensified in July 2014 after a picture was posted on her Instagram account showing a young woman who looked like Brown appearing to be smoking from a bong.
Bobbi Kristina Brown "was not breathing" when Nick Gordon -- the man she has referred to as her husband -- and a friend, who's been identified as Maxwell Lomas, found her inside her townhouse in the Atlanta suburb of Roswell.
They called 911 and performed CPR until emergency crews arrived and took over, police spokeswoman Lisa Holland said.
Nobody knows what caused Brown's unresponsiveness, Holland said, but police consider it a medical incident at this time. She said investigators had found nothing to indicate it was drug- or alcohol-related.
Bobbi Kristina Brown had said she was married to Gordon, who had lived with Houston and her daughter since he was 12 years old. However, Bobby Brown attorney Christopher Brown said the two were never married.
CNN's Carolyn Sung, Lisa Respers France, Eliott C. McLaughlin, Sunny Hostin, Nischelle Turner and Nick Valencia contributed to this report.
