One of three convicted killers who escaped from an Arizona prison was captured Sunday in Rifle, Colorado, and authorities are on the lookout for a silver Volkswagen Jetta the remaining escapees may be driving, according to corrections officials.
Daniel Renwick, 36, was spotted driving a brown Chevy Blazer by a Rifle police officer who gave chase, Arizona Department of Corrections Director Charles Ryan told CNN Radio. Gunshots were exchanged, and Renwick was ultimately taken into custody.
Renwick, who broke out of the Arizona State Prison-Kingman Friday night along with two others, was serving 22 years for second-degree murder. He is being held in Colorado, awaiting questioning by the U.S. Marshals Service.
Ryan said the remaining escapees, identified as Tracy Province and John McCluskey, are believed to be driving a 2002 silver Jetta purchased Saturday in west Phoenix.
"If anyone sees this silver, 4-door Jetta, we recommend they call 911," Ryan said.
The men, who have been described as armed and dangerous, were discovered missing after the 9:45 p.m. count Friday at the privately-operated Kingman facility. The escapees cut a hole in the fence, authorities said. A helicopter and dogs began a search.
"Precisely how they escaped is under investigation," Ryan said, noting some "operational security problems" at the prison.
"Those are being evaluated and investigated as we speak," he added.
Province and McCluskey are believed to be with a female accomplice who was on the visitation list for one of the inmates.
After their escape, the inmates and the accomplice abducted two truck drivers on Interstate 40 outside of Kingman and hijacked their 18-wheeler, according to the Mohave County Sheriff's Department in Kingman. They released them and the rig five hours later in Flagstaff, about 135 miles to the east.
Province, 42, was serving a life sentence for murder and armed robbery. McCluskey, 45, was serving 15 years for second-degree murder and other charges.
The suspected accomplice was identified as 43-year-old Casslyn Mae Welch, who is 5 feet 3 inches tall and weighs 135 pounds with brown hair and green eyes.
CNN Radio's Barbara Hall contributed to this report.
