(Budget Travel) -- Some of my greatest travel memories are about exploring the local markets -- digging through the goods, chatting with vendors, feeling my way through the nuances of a spirited negotiation. Each time, I walk away with an earful of native lore and insider info -- on top of armfuls of awesome finds.
The Springfield Antique Show and Flea Market in Ohio takes place one weekend each month, excluding February and July.
Once, I picked up a pair of swingy silver earrings at a market in Uruguay and simultaneously bagged a tip for the best spot to dance to candombe music, something the seller insisted I do while wearing my new purchase. It was just the kind of authentic encounter I'd never have found in a shop on the main drag. Each of these American markets will leave you with that same richness of experience -- as well as heaps of quality souvenirs. Who needs another plastic snow globe, anyway?
BRIMFIELD ANTIQUE & FLEA MARKET SHOWS
Where & when: Brimfield, Massachusetts; six consecutive days each in mid-May, July and September.
What: A local auctioneer, Gordon Reid, started this outdoor market, now the country's largest, on a somewhat humbler stage back in 1959: his own backyard. Now, more than 1 million visitors flood in every year to shop the peerless selection of affordable New England collectibles (weather vanes, decoys and Nantucket baskets) and maritime accoutrements (brass lamps and ships' wheels) spread across more than 20 "fields" on either side of the town's main road, each containing hundreds of vendors. Budget Travel: 20 great flea markets around the world
Three of the best fields are Dealer's Choice, known for its quality rustic furniture; Heart-O-The Mart, favored for hobnail glassware and intact grain sacks; and J&J Auction Acres, flush with high-end items like colonial cherrywood chests and convex mirrors. Even the food has a regional bent: Try the generously sized $10 lobster rolls, the fresh-popped kettle corn, and the Pilgrim Sandwich, a supersoft roll layered with roasted turkey, stuffing, cranberry sauce, and mayo. brimfield.com.
Best shot at a bargain: The slower July and September markets may yield better deals than the crowded May outing, which serves as the region's antiquing-season opener.
Gigi's find: A portable radio. "I love how [it] is part gadget, part accessory: It swings closed into a ring shape you can carry around like a purse as it plays. I got it years ago at Brimfield for $15." Budget Travel gallery: See these cool flea markets
SPRINGFIELD ANTIQUE SHOW & FLEA MARKET
Where & when: Springfield, Ohio; one weekend each month, excluding February and July.
What: Over the course of its quarter-century run, this busy market held on a county fairground has won a reputation as the heartland's go-to source for all things folky and primitive, such as old metal pails, Shaker boxes, cross-stitched samplers, and calico quilts. Farmhouse antiques, like blanket chests, milk-paint cupboards, and sturdy rocking chairs also figure prominently, as do well-preserved dishware and tabletop items. Budget Travel: How to shop every market like a pro
During each year's three supersize Extravaganzas -- in May, June, and September -- the number of vendors swells to more than 2,500, some operating out of cattle barns and poultry houses. Visit the market's online discussion forum to connect with sellers, preview goods, and even post wish lists. springfieldantiqueshow.com.
Best shot at a bargain: Go in September, when dealers are trying to liquidate their stock for the winter.
BROOKLYN FLEA
Where & when: Brooklyn, New York; Saturdays from mid-April through Thanksgiving.
What: In less than two years, this sale in a Brooklyn schoolyard has attracted a large enough following to justify a second location and seasonal spin-off events. Shoppers come for the mix of vintage clothing and jewelry, architectural salvage, and decorative objects like modernist table lamps and metal desk fans dating from the early to mid-1900s.
Alongside the secondhand-goods sellers, you'll find booths from local designers of reclaimed-wood furniture, handmade shoes, and more. The food stands are just as diverse: Celebrated taco vendors, cheesemongers, and bakers all make weekly appearances. brooklynflea.com.
Best shot at a bargain: Many of the antiques vendors are willing to cut deals on their merchandise, but the proprietors of new goods tend to keep their prices firm.
Gigi's find: "I bought this desk calendar for $30 at the Brooklyn Flea from one of my favorite sellers, Three Potato Four; the owners come up from Virginia every couple of months to sell. Their stuff is the best sort of a happy-industrial meets old-school-classroom vibe."
THE ALAMEDA POINT ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES FAIRE
Where & when: Alameda, California; first Sunday of each month.
What: The San Francisco skyline and the hills of Marin County serve as a cinematic backdrop for this 800-plus-vendor market on the main runway of a decommissioned naval base on San Francisco Bay. Organizers enforce a 20-year-minimum age rule for sale items, which guarantees you'll be shopping for real-deal relics (like French travel posters, Hollywood movie memorabilia, and early-20th-century Japanese pottery), not tables of tube socks and cheap electronics.
The layout is clear and intuitive, with long, evenly spaced rows arranged in a grid; thoughtful touches like pushcarts for hauling heavy purchases, a porcelain-repair kiosk, and free parking with a shuttle service add to the appeal. There's even a handy printable map on the market's Web site. antiquesbybay.com.
Best shot at a bargain: Fewer sellers turn out from January through March, but those who do are often more eager to negotiate.
Gigi's find: "I grew up in Texas, where learning to play dominoes is a rite of passage. I've been collecting vintage sets from various flea markets over the years, including [one] from Alameda Point."
127 CORRIDOR SALE
Where & when: From West Unity, Ohio, to Gadsden, Alabama; first weekend in August.
What: For sheer variety, nothing tops the World's Longest Yard Sale, a bargain-hunter's paradise that meanders along 654 miles of scenic rural highway. Seasoned dealers in formal tents as well as locals unloading the contents of their attics set up shop roadside, hawking crocheted table linens, boxes of fishing lures, weathered iron bed frames, and garden statuary.
There isn't one stretch of road that's consistently the best, so let regional attractions narrow your focus: In Tennessee alone, you can stay the night in a tepee or a log cabin and make a pit stop to pick wild blueberries at Pickett State Park. 127sale.com.
Best shot at a bargain: At a sale this vast, it's simply all about persistence.
Get the best travel deals and tips emailed to you FREE - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2009 Newsweek Budget Travel, Inc., all rights reserved.
Note: This story was accurate when it was published. Please be sure to confirm all rates and details directly with the companies in question before planning your trip.
