Ferrari president Luca di Montezemolo has urged his team not to rest on their laurels after Fernando Alonso's superb win at the British Grand Prix Sunday.
Alonso's victory at Silverstone was the team's first since last October's Korean Grand Prix, but Montezemolo, while also congratulating his charges, said Ferrari mush continue to improve.
"We managed to win and that is down to you [the team] and I want to thank you all for it," the 63-year-old told the manufacturer's official website.
Alonso claims British win for Ferrari
"Now however, we must keep our feet on the ground ... we must take another step forward, because we want to win again this year: to succeed in that, you must all try and do your best in your daily work, trying to achieve a personal pole position."
Two-time world champion Alonso, 29, is third in the drivers' standings, behind the Red Bull duo of Australian Mark Webber in second and reigning world champion Sebastian Vettel in first.
Ferrari have clinched 16 constructors' championships in their illustrious history and are currently third in the team rankings, 54 points behind McLaren and 164 points behind runaway leaders Red Bull.
Passing judgment: Hamilton must stay aggressive
Team boss Stefano Domenicali accepted there was still a large gap between Ferrari and the championship leaders, but said Ferrari must not give up on their pursuit of British-based Red Bull.
"Let us continue like this," the 46-year-old said. "We are a long way off the leaders, but who knows, if things go in a certain way, the air could begin to get more rarefied."
Vettel, 24, has become the first-ever driver to finish in the top two of the season's opening nine rounds and he said Tuesday that Red Bull must now redouble their efforts.
Latest Formula One standings after British Grand Prix
"It was a tough race and Ferrari were very quick," the sport's youngest-ever world champion told Formula One's official website.
"We need to accept this and to understand that when you get beaten you have to accept it. It is a very important time now for the championship.
"We are in a good position still, but we need to keep working on ourselves otherwise the others come too close for our liking."
The Formula One circuit will now head to Germany, home ground for Vettel, and the 10th round of the season at the Nurburgring.
