It was supposed to be something of a homecoming for Eugenie Bouchard, but the 20-year-old's return to Montreal for the WTA Rogers Cup only ended in disappointment.
The Canadian has so far enjoyed a season to remember, making the last four at both the Australian and French Opens, before reaching a maiden grand slam final at Wimbledon in July, losing out to Petra Kvitova.
Yet the world No. 8 was unable to replicate that success in front of an expectant home crowd Tuesday in a second-round clash against American qualifier Shelby Rogers.
Playing for the first time since her defeat at the All England Lawn Tennis Club, Bouchard found herself on the losing end once again, going down 6-0 2-6 6-0.
Rogers -- a runner-up at the WTA event in Bad Gastein, Austria last month -- surprised her opponent, and the crowd, by storming towards the first set, producing seven winners along the way.
And the 21-year-old then showed her nerve to take the third in style after Bouchard had earlier threatened to rein her back in by securing the second.
"This was my first experience in an atmosphere like this -- the whole stadium cheering for one person," Rogers, the world No. 113, is quoted as saying by the WTA's official website.
"I really respect what [Bouchard's] done. It's incredible to see how much support she has."
Bouchard, meanwhile, was disappointed to lose a match in her hometown, but took some satisfaction from the way she performed in the second set.
"I think I was feeling the pressure a little bit on the court -- I felt a little match rusty, kind of," she is quoted as saying by the WTA's official website. "But I knew coming into the match that I can't use those as excuses.
"I knew it would be kind of a difficult situation. But I'm happy I was able to at least prove to myself that I could turn things around and not let the match run away from me completely. That's definitely a positive from the match."
The Canadian added on her opponent: "She was solid the whole match -- she never really sprayed too many balls, and she was always there. Whenever I let up a little bit, which I think I did in the third, she was all over it."
Elsewhere, in the men's edition of the Rogers Cup -- taking place in Toronto -- Roger Federer needed just 52 minutes to advance to the third round of the competition Tuesday.
The second seed, playing in his first match since his final defeat to Novak Djokovic at Wimbledon last month, eased past Canada's Peter Polansky 6-2 6-0.
