After a sudden increase in shootings over the weekend, the New York Police Department has deployed more officers, NYPD Deputy Commissioner Paul Browne said.
More uniformed officers will be assigned to public housing developments citywide, and plainclothes officers will go to borough- and precinct-based anti-crime units during hours that are prone to shootings.
As weekend temperatures topped 90 degrees Fahrenheit, New York City saw a sudden increase in shootings, with 26 people felled by bullets in 72 hours -- seven fatally. Three of the injured victims were younger than 16, Browne said.
"When we have hot temperatures, we see that the crime rate seems to go up," New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said Monday.
Investigators are also monitoring gangs for any signs of planned retribution based on shootings over the weekend, Browne said.
Mobile and fixed camera-equipped observation towers will also be used near the sites of the recent shootings, Browne said in a statement.
But even after the shootings in the 72-hour period from Friday through Sunday, Bloomberg emphasized that the year's homicides are down 24% from last year, for a total of 127 through Sunday, which is 40 less than the same period in 2012.
"One shooting is one too many, but last week we had the fewest shootings in a decade, including this weekend's shootings," Bloomberg said.
In November 2012, New York City logged a record-breaking "murder-free Monday," when there was not a single reported slaying, stabbing or shooting in any of the five boroughs, the New York Police Department said.
"It is unusual in a city of 8 million people, but we never read that much into one day," said Browne, who said it was the "first time in memory" that the city had such a lull in violent crime.
At the close of 2012, Bloomberg called New York City the "safest big city in America," giving the NYPD credit.
"The fact that the safest big city in America is safer than ever is a testament to the hard work and determination of the men and women who put their lives on the line for us every day -- and it also reflects our commitment to doing everything possible to stop gun violence," he said.
CNN's Laura Ly contributed to this report.
