In the besieged Syrian city of Kobani, precious medicine rains from the sky.
Antibiotics, anesthetics, sanitary supplies and bandages -- all desperately needed to treat local fighters and civilians wounded during the siege of this crucial town near the Turkish border.
U.S. airplanes are dropping medical supplies and weapons into this Kurdish city as defenders try to beat back the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS.
Not long ago, Kobani's fall to ISIS seemed certain. But foreign airstrikes and airdropped supplies could help turn the tide.
"We thank the people who brought these medical supplies," said Dr. Walat Omar, who has been braving enemy artillery for weeks to treat the wounded at a makeshift clinic.
In exclusive video obtained by CNN from inside Kobani, Omar showed boxes of medicine in his clinic received from the airdrops.
Even though local defenders control some 70% of the city, Kobani is cut off, and ISIS forces have been shelling it with mortars from the east and south, local government official Anwar Muslim said this week.
More than 100,000 refugees have fled to Turkey amid weeks of intense fighting by Kurdish forces for full control of Kobani, a border town that's one of the last in the region to resist falling to ISIS.
Opinion: ISIS reveals its strategy
In the wrong hands?
But some of the supplies may have landed in the hands of ISIS.
One of the 28 bundles dropped in and around Kobani on Monday drifted away from its target zone, a U.S. official said. The U.S. military said it went back and blasted it.
But a video posted on social media shows what appears to be an ISIS fighter next to a parachute bundle. He goes on to show what appears to be the contents of the bundle, including crates of hand grenades and mortar rounds.
CNN cannot independently confirm whether the items in the video are from a U.S. airdrop.
Officials: Denver girls played hooky from school, tried to join ISIS
Fighting in Kobani continued Wednesday, with six Kurdish defenders killed and the bodies of 10 ISIS fighters recovered, a Kurdish fighter there said.
Mortars fired from the city's east -- presumably by ISIS -- hit the city center, the fighter said.
Battles in Iraq continue
As Kurdish fighters keep battling ISIS in Syria, the militant group continues its offensive in Iraq.
The Iraqi military and tribal forces tried to repel an attack on Amriyat al Falluja on Wednesday, said Anbar province Deputy Gov. Faleh al-Essawi.
Amriyat al Falluja is about 30 kilometers (19 miles) south of Falluja.
At least six suicide bombings and more than 70 mortar attacks targeting government forces were counted Wednesday, al-Essawi said. He said there are casualties on both sides, but the numbers were not immediately known.
Ivan Watson reported from the Turkish-Syrian border; Holly Yan reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Barbara Starr, Kareem Khadder and Brian Walker and journalist Odai Sadik contributed to this report.
