France and the Netherlands both recorded narrow home victories in warm-up matches ahead of next month's World Cup in South Africa.
Robin van Persie scored twice as the Dutch defeated fellow finalists Mexico 2-1 and Mathieu Valbuena grabbed an 83rd minute winner on his debut in France's 2-1 victory over Costa Rica.
Van Persie, playing his first international for six months following an ankle injury, scored from close range with his right foot to make it 1-0, before smashing home his second on the volley.
Who will be the World Cup's best player?
Mexico pulled a goal back 15 minutes from time when Manchester United-bound Javier Hernandez headed in a cross from the left.
Tottenham's Giovani Dos Santos had a chance to level the score, but his powerful shot was tipped over the bar by Dutch goalkeeper Maarten Stekelenburg.
Costa Rica, who are not going to South Africa after losing a play-off to Uruguay in November, took a surprise lead in the 12th minute when Carlos Hernandez's long-range shot bounced over Steve Mandanda's hands.
Yoann Gourcuff had a goal ruled out for offside before France claimed their leveler via an own-goal.
Jeremy Toulalan fed Franck Ribery, whose shot was deflected into his own net by Douglas Sequeira.
The game appeared to be heading for a draw before Valbuena came off the bench to slam in the winner seven minutes from time.
Meanwhile, Edson Buddle and Herculez Gomez were the surprise names in the 23-man U.S. squad for the World Cup.
Coach Bob Bradley cut seven players from his initial roster, namely defenders Chad Marshall and Heath Pearce; midfielders Alejandro Bedoya, Sacha Kljestan and Robbie Rogers; and forwards Brian Ching and Eddie Johnson.
The Americans, beaten 4-2 by the Czech Republic on Tuesday, take on England on June 12 in Rustenburg in their opening World Cup match.
England striker Wayne Rooney has played down fears he is not fully fit.
Rooney suffered from groin and ankle injuries towards the end of the season with Manchester United and had a stiff neck during England's 3-1 victory over Mexico on Monday.
"Fitness-wise I feel good," Rooney told reporters at the England camp. "I have been in every training session with England since we got together."
