Washington (CNN)Hillary Clinton has yet to declare her intentions to run for president, but the likelihood of a 2016 campaign is such a foregone conclusion that 29 out of 46 senators in the Democratic caucus have already endorsed her all-but-certain plans.
Ready for Hillary, the pro-Clinton super PAC that has urged Clinton to run since 2013, has been the force behind seventeen of these endorsements. Senators like Tim Kaine and Mark Warner of Virginia and Dick Durbin of Illinois and have all endorsed the former secretary of state through the super PAC. The group is also currently working to line up more endorsements.
"We've been fortunate to have prominent Democrats lend their credibility, their star power and their grassroots networks to help build a list of millions of Hillary supporters," group spokesman Seth Bringman said about the list of high-profile endorsements they have wrangled for Clinton.
What's more, every female Democratic senator in the last Congress backed Clinton in a secret letter. "All of the Senate Democratic women have written her a letter encouraging her to run," Sen. Kay Hagan, who lost reelection in 2014, told an audience in 2013.
In fact, before Clinton has even declared her candidacy, over 60% of Democratic senators have endorsed her run.
Here is the list:
Sen. Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut- Told CNN at a 2014 University of Connecticut event that he "would support her when and if she" runs.
Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey - Booker told NBC News that there are "few candidates in history" as qualified as Clinton. "There are few candidates in history who are as qualified or ready for the job of president as Hillary Clinton. I'm excited about her candidacy and her vision for our country," Booker said.
Sen. Barbara Boxer of California - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Maria Cantwell of Washington - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Ben Cardin of Maryland - Headlined a December 2014 fundraiser organized by Ready for Hillary
Sen. Bob Casey of Pennsylvania - At a 2014 event in Philadelphia, Casey told CNN that it was too early to talk about Clinton 2016. "I'm not going to get into that," he said. But after Clinton announced her run, he emailed supporters to say, "Having served with her in the Senate, I know she has always been a strong advocate for the middle class and I'm confident she will work tirelessly to ensure that Pennsylvania families have the chance to get ahead and stay ahead."
Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois - Headlined a June 2014 fundraiser organized by Ready for Hillary
Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Al Franken of Minnesota - The senator told MSNBC this in December 2014: "I think that I'm ready for Hillary. I think that we've not had someone this experienced, this tough, and she's very, very impressive." Franken has also expressed support through Ready for Hillary.
Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Martin Heinrich of New Mexico- Headlined a July 2014 fundraiser organized by Ready for Hillary
Sen. Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Mazie Hirono of Hawaii - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida - Nelson reportedly called Clinton in December 2014 to urge her to run. "It's time for a woman," he told The Tampa Bay Times. "I'm all for Hillary."
Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia - Headlined a May 2014 fundraiser organized by Ready for Hillary
Sen. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont - Told Vermont Public Radio this in June 2014: "I told her if she decided to run I would support her and would be willing to do whatever she likes. I've made no secret of that ever since then."
Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia - He told Politico in January 2014 that he wants Clinton to run. "I don't know if there's anyone more qualified. I've seen it all," he said.
Sen. Claire McCaskill of Missouri - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Barbara Mikulski of Maryland - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Patty Murray of Washington - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Brian Schatz of Hawaii - Tweeted Monday morning that he was backing Clinton in 2016.
Sen. Charles Schumer of New York - The outspoken senator has gone as far to say that he would bet on Clinton running in 2016.
Sen. Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Debbie Stabenow of Michigan - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia - Headlined a July 2014 fundraiser organized by Ready for Hillary
Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts - Signed a letter with all other female senators backing a Clinton run
Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island- Told The Hill in January 2014 that he was backing Clinton.
Not all senators, however, are ready to endorse Clinton this early. Delaware Sens. Tom Carper and Chris Coons have both side-stepped questions about Hillary Clinton 2016, largely because of uncertainty around whether Vice President Joe Biden -- a Delaware native -- will run. Pennsylvania Sen. Bob Casey told CNN last year that it was too early to endorse and Sen. Bernie Sanders, an independent senator who caucuses with Democrats, is actively pursuing a 2016 run himself.
Here is the list of not yet and nos to Clinton 2016:
Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio - In a June interview, Brown said he wasn't "on board with anybody" after being asked about Clinton 2016.
Sen. Thomas Carper of Delaware - The senator told The Hill in 2014 that "It's entirely, entirely too early to be talking about anybody running for president."
Sen. Chris Coons of Delaware - "I think 2016 is a long way off, we have to get through 2014," Coons told Politico in January 2014. "I have always supported Sen. Biden, Vice President Biden, and I think all of Delaware looks forward to a future in which he has great opportunities to serve."
Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont - The independent senator is actively pursuing a presidential run in 2016.
Some senators have been unclear about their support of Clinton in 2016. The best example is Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.
Reid sent a fundraising email through Ready for Hillary in 2014 and regularly speaks highly of the Clintons. But he has not directly said that he is support her possible run.
Here is the list of senators whose support is unclear:
Sen. Michael Bennet of Colorado - The Colorado Democrat sent an email through Ready for Hillary in 2014, but to date, has not made it clear that he would back her run in 2016.
Sen. Joe Donnelly of Indiana
Sen. Angus King of Maine - The Maine senator has not said outright that he isn't backing Clinton, but in a post-election interview with MSNBC, the independent senator who caucuses with Democrats said, "I think that is going to be a difficulty for someone like Hillary Clinton, who has tremendous experience and background, but she's going to have a hard time saying, 'Oh, I'm a new person.'"
Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts
Sen. Robert Menendez of New Jersey
Sen. Jeff Merkley of Oregon
Sen. Chris Murphy of Connecticut
Sen. Gary Peters of Michigan - Clinton endorsed Peters in 2014 and although Peters hinted at Clinton's future, he didn't outright endorse her. "Whatever she does, she is going to be really great at it in the future," he said at the event with Clinton.
Sen. Jack Reed of Rhode Island
Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada
Sen. Jon Tester of Montana - After losing the chamber in 2014, the Montana Democrat was named chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee through 2016.
Sen. Tom Udall of New Mexico
Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon
