At least 14 people were killed and dozens more were wounded in explosions across Iraq on Saturday, officials said.
A woman adjusts a memorial of plastic flowers this week at the bombed Foreign Affairs Ministry building.
Nine police officers were killed and 19 wounded in a suicide bombing north of Baghdad on Saturday morning, local officials said. The incident occurred in the Salaheddin province town of al-Shirqat.
Local police said the suspected bomber had been driving a minivan near the outer checkpoint of a police base. The bomber detonated when police opened fire, police said.
Twenty shops and dozens of cars were damaged.
Later in the evening, a motorcycle rigged with explosives detonated outside a busy coffee shop in a southeastern Baghdad district called New Baghdad, killing two and wounding 13 others, according to the Ministry of Interior. The attack occurred about 9 p.m. (2 p.m. ET) as people had gathered to break their fast for Islam's holy month of Ramadan.
In other violence Saturday, at least three people were killed and 40 wounded when a roadside bomb detonated in a marketplace in northern Iraq, an Interior Ministry official said.
The bomb detonated in the town of Sinjar, a predominantly Yazidi town west of Mosul near the Syrian border.
Yazidis are a minority group mainly concentrated in Iraq's north and have been often targeted by insurgents. The deadliest attack since the start of the war was in August 2007, when coordinated truck bombs hit Yazidi villages, killing more than 500 and wounding hundreds.
Despite the improved security situation across the country, there has been a spike in attacks in recent weeks. Last week, two massive suicide truck bombs hit the foreign and finance ministries in Baghdad, killing at least 100 people and wounding hundreds more.
The attacks come at a time when Iraqi security forces have come under a lot of criticism after they took control of security in cities and towns after the withdrawal of U.S. combat forces two months ago.
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh and Mohammed Tawfeeq contributed to this report.
