Darren Clarke holds a one-stroke lead going into the final round of the British Open at Royal St George's, Sandwich, as the Northern Irishman carded a one-under-par 69 to defy the wind and rain that plagued the early part of the day.
The 42-year-old, who has never won a major championship, is now just 18 holes away from breaking that duck, as he lies on a five-under-par total of 205, one of just six players to be under par after three rounds.
Clarke, who is looking to go one better than his second place in the 1997 British Open, will be paired alongside American Dustin Johnson on the final Sunday, after the 27-year-old from South Carolina posted a joint-best 68 for a 54-hole total of 206 (-4).
Numbers game: British Open stats you need to know
Johnson is also seeking his first major success, although he was deprived of a possible win in last year's U.S PGA Championship when he was controversially penalised two shots in the final round for grounding his club in a bunker.
The only other player to shoot under 70 was American Rickie Fowler -- and the Ryder Cup star's 68 was enough to put him joint third with veteran Dane Thomas Bjorn on 208, three strokes behind Clarke.
Spain's Miguel Angel Jimenez (72) and joint overnight leader Lucas Glover (73) are another stroke behind to complete the sextet who remain under par.
Clarke, who is bidding to become the third Northern Irishman to win a major tournament in just over a year, following the achievements of compatriots Graeme McDowell and McIlory, told the official European Tour website: "From tee to green I can't really play any better than that.
Ugly and unforgiving: Why Britain offers golf's toughest test
"I had one of those days where I had full control of my ball flight, although I didn't have the speed with my putting at all. But if somebody had said before the start I could have a 69, I would have bitten their hand off."
The popular Clarke was cheered loudly throughout his round and he commented on the support: "I think most of the crowd identify with a guy who's not quite an athlete and likes a pint!
"I have a chance to realise a dream now and that would be fantastic. I have been fortunate to win Ryder Cups and world championships, but a major has so far eluded me," he added.
The third round began in terrible weather conditions, making low scoring practically impossible, although the wind and rain did ease up later in the day to make for a more benign atmosphere for the later starters.
Among those players whose chance of victory were swept away with the wind and rain were Paul Casey (78), Pablo Larrazabal (76), Masters champion Charl Schwartzel (75), defending champion Louis Oosthuizen (74) and tournament favorite Rory McIlory (74).
However, world number three Martin Kaymer remains in touch on level par despite carding a three-over-par 73, while former world No.1 Phil Mickelson shot a superb 71 to also lie on level par.
