Police in New Brunswick scoured overnight for a man they say fatally shot three of their officers and wounded two others in the Canadian province.
"Shooter still believed to be in Pinehurst Subdivision area of Moncton. Stay locked inside. Leave outdoor lights on," the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in New Brunswick tweeted early Thursday morning.
Police sent other warnings Wednesday night to those in Moncton, a city of just over 100,000 people some 90 miles (150 kilometers) northeast of St. John and 150 miles north of Halifax.
"Stay safe. Motorist stay away from area," another tweet read.
The RCMP has identified the suspect as 24-year-old Justin Bourque, warning that the Moncton resident should be considered armed and dangerous. It posted a photograph of a man dressed in fatigues, carrying what appeared to be a rifle.
"The RCMP received a call at 7:20 p.m. Atlantic Time of a man wearing camouflage clothing, carrying firearms, and walking into the woods," Staff Sgt. Julie Gagnon said.
She said the three officers killed were from the RCMP's Codiac regional office in New Brunswick.
Helicopters were flying over the neighborhood, according to Isabelle LeBlanc, spokeswoman for the City of Moncton. She lives in the area that is currently on lockdown.
All entrances to the neighborhood are blocked off, she said. Her husband has not been able to reach their home.
She said some buses have been pulled off the road because of the concern for public safety.
At least two people who suffered gunshot wounds and were taken to The Moncton Hospital, health authority spokeswoman Carolyn McCormack said. The hospital later added that a third gunshot victim had been admitted.
It was not immediately clear if those were among the five police officers who have been shot, including three fatally.
"(The hospital) is restricting visitors to those with critically ill family members," an affiliated Facebook page noted. "All others are asked to refrain from visiting at this time."
Stabbed Wisconsin girl improving, family says
Shooter on the loose after killing 3 officers in Canada
CNN's Kevin Conlon, AnneClaire Stapleton, Elizabeth Landers and Dave Alsup contributed to this report.
