Louisiana Republican Governor Bobby Jindal hasn't announced another run for office -- but his large campaign spending since winning re-election in 2011 suggests he still has some political ambitions in mind.
Jindal's campaign spending totaled $1.8 million in 2013, according to analysis from New Orleans paper The Times-Picayune published Tuesday, and said that was more than any other politician in the state for that year. He spent more than $152,600 in 2012 and 2013 for flights to New Hampshire, Iowa and South Carolina -- lynchpin states that nearly all potential presidential candidates visit to swing votes in their favor.
Fees for consultants and hotels, however, remained consistent when compared to the amount he spent in 2011 when he was campaigning for governor in Louisiana.
Jindal has been one of a growing list of GOP governors who could run for president in 2016.
Timmy Teepell, an adviser to Jindal who formerly served as the governor's chief of staff, confirmed that the reported spending numbers were accurate, but said a closer look at Jindal's expenses shows nothing unusual.
"All of it wasn't spent on travel or what not," Teepell said, pointing out that about $600,000 was spent on a public awareness campaign after Jindal's education reform policies elicited a lawsuit from the Department of Justice. At the time, funds were used to rally constituent support for Jindal's program, an effort that falls squarely within the legal ramifications of campaign spending.
"Bobby is the governor. He's trying to advance policy goals. Spending money to help him accomplish those policy goals is officeholder expenses," Teepell said. His firm, OnMessage is among the consultants who has received payments from Jindal's campaign, according to The Times-Picayune.
The Jindal adviser also said some of Jindal's out-of-state travel is, in part, attributable to cross-country speaking engagements during his time as chairman of the Republican Governors Association in 2013.
It's a position eyed by presidential hopefuls. The RGA's top slot has been held by other potential 2016 contenders including Texas governor Rick Perry, and is currently maintained by New Jersey governor Chris Christie.
For months, pundits have speculated about Jindal's potential 2016 presidential run. The governor himself has joked about the irony of his busy travel schedule despite a lack of a formal campaign announcement.
"Now, some people have asked me if I intend to run for president in 2016," he said in a speech May 2013. "And the answer is that I have no plans to run. I've made that clear, over and over again, in Iowa, in New Hampshire and in South Carolina."
The governor, who is legally prohibited to run for a third term as Louisiana's top leader, has said in the past he won't make a decision until after December.
