A northern California couple have offered a "full confession" for their role in kidnapping Jaycee Dugard and holding her for 18 years, a defense lawyer said Monday.
Stephen Tapson, the court-appointed attorney for Nancy Garrido, told reporters that she and Philip Garrido had given "full and complete statements" to the El Dorado, California, sheriff's office -- including one such session in which Dugard was in the same room, separated from her alleged abductors by only a table.
"They've been honest with them, in the hope of mercy on the behalf of Mr. Garrido for Mrs. Garrido," said Tapson, who does not represent Philip Garrido. The pair told authorities "everything they wanted to know."
Dugard was 11 years old when she was snatched in 1991 from the street in front of her home in South Lake Tahoe, California. Authorities say the Garridos held Dugard in a hidden compound behind their home for 18 years. She was 29 when she was found in August 2009 at the Garridos' home in Antioch, California, about 120 miles from her house.
Garrido, a registered sex offender on parole at the time of his arrest, has been accused of fathering two daughters with Dugard during her captivity.
Tapson alluded to Nancy Garrido's role in kidnapping Dugard and other issues, while distancing his client from her part in the forced sexual relationship between Dugard and Philip Garrido. He said that Nancy Garrido served as a mother figure to Dugard's children, fathered by Philip and born while Jaycee was in captivity.
Calling his client's case "a classic example of really lousy taste in men," Tapson said he'd likely argue that Nancy Garrido suffered from "Stockholm syndrome" -- unswervingly following her husband, even when it meant committing illegal acts. Nancy Garrido "doesn't want to disengage" with her husband -- "but hopefully she will, with urging," her lawyer said.
Neither Garrido has pled guilty to any crimes, as of yet. Absent a plea agreement, Nancy Garrido could face 278 years, eight months in prison, while Philip Garrido might get upwards of 440 years, according to Tapson.
Dugard now lives in seclusion with her mother, Terry Probyn, and Dugard's two daughters.
Officials had previously said Dugard does not want to speak to either Garrido. Tapson said he has asked to speak to Dugard but that she has not talked to him as of yet. He said Nancy Garrido was in "tears" when she saw Dugard, who listened to a confessed statement from the two at the El Dorado Sheriff Office's detective bureau.
Tapson spoke Monday outside El Dorado Superior Court in Placerville following a brief hearing into several media outlets' request to make public grand jury testimony and Philip Garrido's mental health records. Judge Douglas Phimster denied the motion, according to a court statement, saying that doing so "will prejudice (the Garridos') right to a fair trial."
Philip Garrido will next be in court March 17, according to the El Dorado Superior Court website, for his arraignment -- a step that has been delayed amid questions about his mental competence. There is no posted date for Nancy Garrido's next court appearance.
