(CNN Student News) -- October 14, 2013
Two major storms roar through the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and Monday's show begins with a look at what they left behind. We also examine the significance and controversy of Columbus Day, and we take off with a U.S. Coast Guard pilot who overcame tragedy to ascend to her dream job.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What might be the best way to get reliable information about a natural disaster happening on the other side of the world? How might someone use this information?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Washington, D.C.
2. Columbus Day
3. U.S. Coast Guard
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Approximately how many people were temporarily relocated in India, and why?
2. What national parks and monuments were reopened recently? Why had they been closed?
3. According to Malala Yousafzai, what are some things that terrorists are afraid of?
Discussion Questions:
1. What may be some of the challenges of relocating large numbers of people ahead of a major storm? How might these challenges contrast to relocating people from remote areas?
2. Why do you think that access to education is limited in some parts of the world? What impact might restricting access to education have on a region's residents and its people in power? What are your thoughts on Malala Yousafzai's statements on the power of education?
3. What challenges do you think that Coast Guard Lt. La'Shanda Jones may have faced throughout her life? What are your thoughts on Lt. Jones' story?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
India; Pakistan; Philippines
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
