A search of an apartment leased by former New England Patriot Aaron Hernandez recovered ammunition from the same caliber gun used to kill his friend Odin Lloyd, court documents reveal.
Massachusetts State Police searched the apartment in Franklin on June 26.
Authorities found new evidence, including .45-caliber ammunition and a white hooded sweatshirt, search warrants obtained by CNN reveal.
The bullet that killed Lloyd was from a .45-caliber gun, and the white sweatshirt matches one Hernandez was seen wearing on surveillance video on June 17, the night Lloyd died.
Who is Odin Lloyd?
Hernandez has been charged with premeditated murder. He has pleaded not guilty.
Several other items were also found in the apartment, including a baseball cap similar to one Hernandez was reportedly seen wearing outside of a club the Friday before Lloyd was slain.
A valet ticket from the nearby W Boston hotel and several shirts with the number 81, Hernandez's jersey number, were also found.
Police found out about the apartment from the suspect's acquaintance, Carlos Ortiz.
He said, "Hernandez has a second place that not many people know about," search warrants show. He also told police that he and Hernandez stopped at the apartment the night after Lloyd's death, according to warrants.
Police then obtained a copy of the apartment lease, which was signed by Hernandez on May 1, search warrants show. The search warrants obtained by CNN are for Hernandez's apartment. The warrants for his home have not been released.
Authorities have said Hernandez and two other men picked Lloyd up from his Boston apartment early on June 17. Surveillance cameras captured the car at an industrial park near Hernandez's North Attleborough home. Lloyd's body was found in the industrial park later that day, authorities have said.
As Hernandez begins his second week at the Dartmouth House of Corrections, Bristol County Sheriff Tom Hodgson said Hernandez is adjusting to a lifestyle change that has taken him from deluxe accommodations and the adulation of fans to the solitude of a 7-by-10-foot jail cell.
Hernandez was "reclassified" this week, Hodgson said, meaning the pro football player was granted additional benefits, including three hours per day outside of his cell for making phone calls, walking around in a prison common area and an hour outdoors.
Patriots offer trade-in for Hernandez jerseys
The former tight end will also be able to have an account at the prison's commissary, where Hodgson says he can order soup, cookies and toiletries. Hernandez can also see visitors one day per week for a total of one hour. No one has visited him yet, Hodgson said.
Hernandez, however, will still have no access to television, Internet or even a weight room. He will also be unable to marry his fiancee while in jail.
"That's for the other side of the wall," Hodgson said.
His next court appearance is scheduled for July 24.
CNN's Lawrence Crook and Kevin Conlon contributed to this report
