London's Metropolitan Police have praised the good behavior of Scotland fans during Sunday's match against Brazil, despite claims by Brazilian striker Neymar that a banana was thrown at him as a form of racist abuse.
Santos striker Neymar, 19, scored both goals in Brazil's 2-0 victory at the Emirates Stadium, the home of English Premier League side Arsenal.
But the Brazilian attacker later revealed that he was subjected to racist taunts from Scottish spectators, which culminated in the banana-throwing incident.
However, the police confirmed they had received no complaints about any form of racism being displayed during the match on Monday.
Will Neymar win 2014 World Cup for Brazil?
Match commander, Chief Inspector Mark Shearan, issued an official press release which read: "The Scottish supporters who travelled down to the game in their numbers were friendly and good-natured, colourful and supportive of their team.
"There were six arrests at the match -- of which only two were definitely Scottish supporters and were drink-related. This figure must be the seen in the context of a 53,000 strong crowd."
After his two-goal winning performance, Neymar had earlier claimed to Brazilian media that he had been the subject of racist abuse: "This atmosphere of racism is totally sad.
"They were jeering me a lot, even when I was about to kick the penalty the entire stadium was jeering.
"We leave our country to play here and something like this happens. It's sad. I would rather not even talk about it, to keep the subject from escalating."
Neymar's teammate Lucas Leiva, who plays in England for Liverpool and removed the banana from the pitch, added: "There is no more space for racism in the world.
"Europe is where it happens the most. That has to change, everybody is equal today and it's a matter of respect."
The Scottish Football Association (SFA), in a statement on their official website, denied the claims from Neymar. "There was no evidence of such instances but the Scotland supporters have confirmed they booed the player for perceived unsporting behaviour during the match.
"The tens of thousands of Scotland fans who travelled to London were, in fact, commended for creating a carnival atmosphere not just inside the stadium but across the city throughout the weekend.
"The Scottish FA has contacted the Brazilian Football Federation and the match organisers, Kentaro, to inform them of our information and of our supporters' unhappiness at the unfounded accusations," the statement read.
