It seats two people, has a sleek retractable roof and runs on electric power. And its body can be 3D printed in a single piece.
Meet the Strati, the concept vehicle that was selected from more than 200 entries as the winner of the 3D Printed Car Design Challenge -- back in mid-April, US-based company Local Motors invited designers from around the world to submit their concepts for a car that can be manufactured using 3D printing.
Developed by Italian designer Michele Anoe, the Strati will now form the basis of a car that will be printed out live and assembled from scratch at the International Manufacturing Technology Show in Chicago in September.
The judges chose Anoe's design for its compatibility with existing 3D printing technologies and explained it offered "an excellent balance between innovation, complexity and practicality."
The final prototype will make use of the electric powertrain from a Renault Twizy, but its structural chassis will be printed in one single piece. Elements like the seats, the dashboard, the boot and the bonnet will also be 3D printed during September's show.
Anoe won't just see his car brought to life, he'll also receive $5,000 for his winning design.
Read this: Is your flying car finally here?
Local Motors, a crowd-sourced car maker, has already developed a working model to check the process and has also released a video of its first test drive.
"It look us less than 40 hours to print one car and less than four days to assemble the first prototype which is an unbelievably short amount of time," says Jay Rogers, chief executive of Local Motors, which has been building off-road desert racers and electric-powered drift trikes for seven years now.
"By the end of this summer it will be less than 20 hours of printing, and we believe we can get it down to less than an hour of assembly by two people -- what this means is that is really the first production 3D printed car when you can reach those numbers," he continues.
"Our goal in the end is to be radically different about the creation of cars; we sort of commonly say a car today is over 20,000 parts -- we would like cars of the future to have less than 20 parts."
Six additional entries were also recognized and their designers received awarded with $1,000. Local Motors says that some elements of these concepts could also found their way into the final prototype. Click through the gallery above to see the winning concepts.
More from On the Move
Read this: Is your flying car finally here?
