Thursday brings one of the biggest slates of Hollywood entertainment to open on Christmas Day in many years.
Tom Cruise stars as would-be Hitler assassin Col. Claus von Stauffenberg in the World War II drama "Valkyrie."
Stars such as Tom Cruise, Brad Pitt and Adam Sandler are featured in a slew of big-budget movies hoping to lure people into theaters this holiday season.
Here are the top five movies opening Thursday:
1. "Valkyrie" -- Tom Cruise stars in the true story of a German military officer who conspires to assassinate Adolf Hitler. Cruise plays Col. Claus von Stauffenberg, a proud military man who realizes that Hitler must be stopped before Germany and Europe collapse under Nazi rule.
Joining Cruise are three-time Oscar nominee Kenneth Branagh as Maj. Gen. Henning von Tresckow and twice-nominated actor Tom Wilkinson as Gen. Friedrich Fromm. United Artists is releasing the film.
2. "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button" -- Brad Pitt stars in this fantasy drama about a man who ages backward. He's born in his 80s and then gets younger as the years pass. "Button" is based on the 1920s story by F. Scott Fitzgerald and runs two hours and 47 minutes.
The cast includes Academy Award winner Cate Blanchett, who is creating Oscar buzz this year as well for her portrayal of Daisy in "Button." The film, released by Paramount Pictures, already has won several film critics' awards.
3. "Marley & Me" -- Owen Wilson and Jennifer Aniston learn life lessons from an out-of-control canine they decide to adopt. This comedy-drama is adapted from the best-selling novel by John Grogan.
Some audiences expecting a feel-good comedy such as "Turner & Hooch" or "Beethoven" may be surprised by this painfully realistic portrayal that could leave audiences teary-eyed at the end. The supporting cast includes Alan Arkin and Kathleen Turner. The PG-rated film gets a 20th Century Fox release.
4. "Bedtime Stories" -- Funny guy Adam Sandler shoots for the family crowd with this fantasy comedy about a hotel handyman who tells his niece and nephew a bedtime story, only to find out that his fantasy stylings are coming true.
Sandler's film, which also stars Guy Pearce, Courteney Cox and Keri Russell, is getting mixed reviews so far. It's rated PG for mild rude humor and mild language.
5. "The Spirit" -- Based on a graphic novel about a masked crusader, "The Spirit" will cater to the so-called fanboys who hope the film's PG-13 rating will push the envelope on violence and other cool stuff. iReport.com: Will you see any of the new movies on tap during the holidays?
Gabriel Macht plays Denny Colt, aka The Spirit, in this story of a man who fakes his death so he can fight a coldblooded killer known as the Octopus (Samuel L. Jackson). Eva Mendes is along for the ride, which could be a plus for the film's desired demographic of young men 13 to 21. Lionsgate is distributing.
