The Newtown community has begun to say goodbye to victims of the December 14 shooting with a series of funerals, memorial services and vigils.
As the entire community struggles to come to terms with what happened, and tries to understand the inexplicable, families have started the process of deciding how they'd prefer gifts in their relative's name be directed.
Below is a list of ways to donate in victims' names, and ways to send families messages of support and condolence, as detailed in their obituaries.
Remembering the victims
Charlotte Bacon - In lieu of flowers, contributions in Charlotte's memory may be sent to Christ the King Lutheran Church, 85 Mt. Pleasant Rd., Newtown, CT 06470.
Daniel Barden - In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in Daniel's name to the Sandy Hook School Support Fund. A private fund has been set up for the Barden family. For more information or to make a contribution visit BardenFund.com
Dylan Christopher Hockley - Memorial contributions may be made to the Dylan Hockley Memorial Fund, 34 Charter Ridge Road, Sandy Hook, CT, 06482.
Dawn Hochsprung - To leave an online condolence message, please visit MunsonLovetereFuneralHome.com. Memorial contributions to the Dawn Lafferty Hochsprung Memorial Fund can be mailed to or dropped off at either Waterbury Connecticut Teachers Federal Credit Union location. Visit WCTFCU.com for more information.
Chase Kowalski - In lieu of flowers please make a donation to the Chase Kowalksi Scholarship Fund, c/o Peoples Bank, 470 Monroe Tpke., Monroe, CT 06468. To leave an online condolence please visit SpadaccinoFuneralHome.com.
James Mattioli - In lieu of flowers, a donation may be made in James' memory to the James R. Mattioli Memorial Fund c/o Newtown Savings Bank, 39 Main Street, Newtown CT 06470. To leave an online condolence please visit SpadaccinoFuneralHome.com
Emilie Parker - You can send a message to Emilie's family or donate to their fund via a Facebook page set up for Emilie.
Noah Pozner - You can send a message of support to Noah's family via this Facebook page. Also, the Noah's Ark of Hope Fund has been established to help Noah's siblings, two of whom were at the school during the shooting.
Caroline Previdi - Contributions in Caroline's memory may be made to "The Toy Chest", St. Rose of Lima Church, 46 Church Hill Road, Newtown, CT 06470
Jessica Rekos - Memorial contributions may be made to the Newtown Rotary Sandy Hook School Fund, PO Box 263, Newtown, CT 06482.
Victoria Soto - The family has requested in lieu of flowers that donations be made to the Victoria L. Soto Memorial Fund for Education, through the Funeral Home.
Benjamin Wheeler - To leave a message of condolence for Benjamin's family, please click here.
Allison Wyatt - Allison Wyatt's family has designated two funds for those interested in making a contribution in lieu of flowers. Donations payable to the Allison Wyatt Memorial Fund are tax deductible and will support charities in Allison's honor. The second fund will provide Allison's younger sister with ongoing support and for her college education. Donations to this fund should be payable to "Ben Wyatt as Custodian," and donations to either can be mailed to Steve DeMartino, c/o TransAct Technologies Inc., One Hamden Center, 2319 Whitney Avenue, Suite 3B, Hamden, CT 06518.
