Striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic was sent off as Italian Serie A leaders AC Milan wasted a chance to extend their advantage after being held to a 1-1 home draw by bottom side Bari on Sunday.
After nearest rivals Inter were held 1-1 at Brescia on Friday, a Milan victory would have seen the Rossoneri move seven points clear at the top of the table.
However, in the end, Milan were thankful for a late Antonio Cassano goal to deprive the visitors of a shock victory.
Milan crashed out of the Champions League to Tottenham in midweek -- and another defeat looked on the cards when Bari went ahead six minutes before half-time.
Almiron took a quick free-kick past Milan's defensive wall for Hungarian Gergely Rudolf to run onto and shoot across goalkeeper Christian Abbiati.
Ibrahimovic had the ball in the net on the hour mark, but his goal was ruled out for handball, and the Swedish international was then sent off for hitting out at Marco Rossi.
Bari, who remain 12 points from safety, then wasted two golden opportunities to wrap the points, before Cassano levelled with eight minutes remaining, volleying home Luca Antonini's pull-back.
Elsewhere, third-placed Napoli closed to within a point of Inter after a comfortable 3-1 win at struggling Parma.
Raffaele Palladino gave Parma the lead at the break, but Ezequiel Lavezzi then set up Marek Hamsik to level.
Hamsik then returned the favor for Lavezzi to make it 2-1 and the home side had Danielle Galloppa sent off before Christian Maggio made the points safe with a late third.
In-form Udinese continued their rise up the table, moving up to fourth place with a 4-0 thashing of Cagliari thanks to a double from the Serie A top scorer Antonio Di Natale.
Meanwhile, a fiery Rome derby saw Francesco Totti net both goals, the second from the penalty spot, as Roma defeated Lazio 2-0.
Lazio, who finished with nine men after the late dismissals of both Stefan Radu and Francesco Matuzalem, have now lost their last five matches against their city rivals and slip down to fifth place in the table as a result, with Roma two points and one place behind.
