(CNN)  -- Defending champion Roger Federer and world number two Rafael Nadal were sent crashing from the Masters 1000 event in Cincinnati Friday.
Federer, unbeaten at the hard court tournament since 2008, went down tamely to eighth seed Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic, losing 6-2 7-6 in just over 90 minutes.
Earlier, in-form Mardy Fish thrashed Nadal 6-3 6-4 to march into the semifinals in Ohio.
Victory earned the seventh-seeded American a clash against fourth-ranked Andy Murray of Britain, who he beat in the corresponding tournament last year.
The seventh seed, who pushed world number one Novak Djokovic all the way in the Montreal Masters final last week, continued that superb form against a listless Nadal.
Fish claimed the early break against Nadal, who had been involved in a marathon tussle with fellow Spaniard Fernando Verdasco the previous evening, and never looked back.
He wrapped up the first set in 43 minutes and broke through in the fifth game of the second as Nadal sent a forehand wide on break point against him.
Fish, who was serving magnificently, never looked like surrendering the advantage and carved out three match points before winning it with a forehand passing shot after one hour 43 minutes.
It was his first victory in seven attempts against the indominatable Nadal as he acknowledged in his post-match interview.
"He's kicked my butt six times and it feels pretty good to have turned it around," he told Sky Sports.
"I'm so much more confident right now and if I was to choose a surface and a court I would choose this one," he added.
Murray, who crashed out in ignominious fashion in his opener in Montreal last week, has been showing much improved form and saw off France's Gilles Simon 6-3 6-3 in an early morning encounter.
"It is good when you win to get it out of the way," Murray told Sky Sports.
"I managed to get through and look forward to the next one."
But it was the defeat of Federer that proved the main talking point as the former world number one looked out of sorts from the start against the big-hitting Berdych.
He was broken twice in the opening set and could not fashion a single break point.
The second set was closer, but Berdych, who beat the Swiss star in the semifinals of Wimbledon last year, easily won the tiebreak 7-3 to progresss.
He will play world number one Novak Djokovic, who was also given a scare before beating Gael Monfils in the night match.
The French sixth seed took the first set, but his Serbian opponent recovered to win 3-6 6-4 6-3 in two and a half hours.
"It was a very physical match, but I hung in there and it was a good win," Djokovic told AFP.
The win takes Djokovic to 56-1 for the year with his only defeat to Federer in the semifinals of the French Open.
