Going to the Academy Awards has been dangerous for Jennifer Lawrence.
For two years, the actress couldn't seem to stay upright at the event, tripping once in 2013 when walking to the stage to accept her Oscar for "Silver Linings Playbook," and then falling again when arriving for the ceremony this March.
So is Lawrence really that accident-prone, or are her repeat tumbles some sort of scheme to become more relatable, and thus more likable?
Well if it is a plot, Lawrence tells Marie Claire in its June issue, she'd be smarter about executing it.
At the 2014 Oscars, Lawrence says she was "trying to do the right thing" as she got out of her limo. She was "waving to fans, trying to be nice, and there's a traffic cone," she recalls.
"The second I hit it, I was laughing, but on the inside I was like, 'You're f****d. They're totally going to think this is an act...' But trust me if I was going to plan it, I would have done it at the Golden Globes or the SAGs. I would have never done it at two Oscars in a row. I watch 'Homeland' -- I'm craftier than that!"
That kind of answer is exactly the reason fans adore Lawrence; she's uber-talented but also down-to-earth enough to freak out on a reporter who spoiled the last season of "Homeland." Yet the Kentucky-bred star insists that becoming famous has worn off some of her Average Jane charm, telling Marie Claire that these days, she's "a lot more closed off and frankly probably rude."
"I mean, I'm from Kentucky. I used to be very personable and make eye contact and smile at people, and now all I do is look down," the 23-year-old says. "When I'm at dinner and one person after another keeps interrupting to take pictures, it's like, 'I can't live like this.' "
But one thing Lawrence has learned to live with is a long-distance relationship. Both the actress and her boyfriend, "X-Men: Days of Future Past" co-star Nicholas Hoult, are busy building their careers, and they've agreed it's OK to "mutually ignore each other" for a bit when necessary.
"Neither of us gets mad when the other doesn't text back or call. Life's super-busy," the actress says. "Obviously you know what they're doing, and you trust them. We're so young that it would almost be like if we lived in the same city, what would happen? We'd be living together. At least this way he's in the same boat as I am: We can go out and have our own lives and know that we have each other."
It's not an overstatement that Lawrence keeps a busy schedule; for the next two years she's committed to wrapping up "The Hunger Games" franchise with "Mockingjay" parts 1 and 2, plus filming another "X-Men" movie, "X-Men: Apocalypse," all of which comes on the heels of the highly touted David O. Russell movie "American Hustle."
The latter earned Lawrence another raft of praise and an Oscar nomination for best supporting actress, a nod that some prognosticators thought she might cinch.
In the end, the gold went to "12 Years a Slave" actress Lupita Nyong'o, and Lawrence says she couldn't have been more thrilled.
"I was very happy I voted for Lupita," Lawrence said. "It's beautiful when you watch something good happen to somebody when it's well deserved."
