"News To Me" is the world as YOU see it. Your videos, pictures and stories showcased in an original, fast-paced and interactive show on HLN. Host Eric Lanford brings you the best of citizen journalism and the stories BEHIND the Web's most talked about videos.
Redneck Mommy Eric Lanford talks to a stay-at-home mother whose blog posts are blatantly honest. Watch
River runs through house An Iowa flood victim returns to his home to gather a few of his most prized belongings. Watch
The sky is falling News To Me talks to a golfer who came within feet of losing his life in the course. Watch
Who are these guys? News To Me talks to a guy who is trying to track down people in a unique photo. Watch
Train wreck in first-person An iReporter was on a commuter train as it barreled through a car sitting on the tracks. Watch
Hello out there News To Me talks to an astronomer to get some insight on an alleged sighting in Nebraska. Watch
Adventures of Superboo An 11-year-old girl embarks on a 300-mile race through the Everglades in her mom's honor. Watch
Iceberg Collapse An iReporter captures the fall of an iceberg. Watch
Gone Muddin' iReporters capture Canadians gearing up for the annual downstream River Run festival. Watch
Alien Invasion I-Reporters, yet again, consider the possibility that aliens exist in Arizona. Watch
Get mortified A web site that allows you to upload your most embarrassing childhood moments. Watch
The mess hall A soldier's father talks about the dilapidated condition of the barracks at Ft. Bragg. Watch
Mister twister An iReporter captures the devastation left behind by tornadoes in Suffolk, Virginia. Watch
Brush with fire An iReporter brings incredible footage of a fire allegedly set by a transient at a camp site. Watch
One of the world's fastest jump ropers Some of the craziest clips from the Web including video of one of the fastest jump ropers. Watch
Backyard FX Eric Lanford talks to the frugal filmmakers of Indy Mogul. Watch
Ski base jumping News To Me takes you on a thrill known as ski base jumping. Watch
Garbage Island Eric Lanford finds out about island-sized piles of plastic floating in the Pacific Ocean. Watch
All about iReport.com Eric Lanford talks with CNN.com's Nicole Lapin about iReport.com. Watch
Operation Puppy Love The fight for soldiers to deliver a puppy to the mother of one of their fallen comrades. Watch
NTM's Amtrekker News To Me talks to a guy that travels the country trying to complete tasks on his bucket list. Watch
Hunting the Megladon There may be a shark out there lurking in the deep ocean waters that's scarier than Jaws! Watch
GoGreen Man News To Me introduces you to a 10-year-old environmentalist. Watch
Crane collapse footage News To Me brings you incredible iReport footage of a crane collapsing in New York City. Watch
Atlanta tornado footage Incredible footage and iReports of the first tornado to ever hit downtown Atlanta. Watch
One shoe diaries An artist photographs his travels around the country, one shoe at a time. Watch
Balloon Project A bird's eye view of one of the greatest cities in the world with the Balloon Project. Watch
Postcard from Cuba 'News To Me' talks to one tourist that lifts the veil on Castro's Cuba. Watch
The exploding whale The inside story of the exploding whale - of one of the web's most legendary videos. Watch
YouTube Cop Eric Lanford talks to a Tennessee cop with a 21st century twist on the 'Most Wanted' poster. Watch
Viral Politics "News To Me" examines how voters are using the Web to shape this year's presidential race. Watch
Extreme bike racing "News To Me" introduces you to the dangerous underground sport of 'alley cat' racing. Watch
One cold hand "News To Me" brings to you a new kind of online matchmaking. Watch
Return of the Loch Ness Monster Watch some of the hottest videos on the Web including the return of the Loch Ness Monster. Watch
Italy's garbage crisis taly faces a major trash problem and iReporters are there to document. Watch
Dramatic rescues Plucked from the jaws of death -- one man in icy water and another vs. a train! Watch
No crash test dummies At the crossroads of ingenuity and insanity you'll find the Safety Bike. Watch
Web drifter A man who has made it his life's work to come face to face with the people he sees online. Watch
Pioneer woman A  former city girl blogs about her life & family on the lonesome prairie. Watch
Viral Videos of 2007 Eric Lanford reminisces on some of our favorite videos to go viral on "News To Me" in 2007. Watch
Eric's Picks The World's Fastest Clapper, the Fastest Zip Line, and Bush Man are featured. Watch
One job - one week A guy willing to do 52 jobs in 52 weeks, all in search of the perfect job! Watch
Tuxedo Travels Two men are on a quest to save the world--while wearing tuxedos. Watch
We know your secrets! Eric Lanford talks with the creator of the Post Secret blog-spot and learns your secrets. Watch
Paranormal ghost hunter Eric Lanford introduces us to Chris Halton, a real ghost hunter. Watch
UFO Hoax Eric Lanford asks David Sarno if UFOs are fact or fiction. Watch
Web hits News To Me rounds up the week's hottest viral videos on the Web. Watch
Where is Matt? "News To Me's" Eric Lanford talks with a world traveler who dances everywhere he goes. Watch
Cave rescue "News To Me" goes inside the Texas cave that was the site of a recent daring rescue. Watch
Web hits Some of the hottest videos online, including a soccer fan who formed a human LCD screen. Watch
Ascending the Giants Two world-class tree climbers take us up some of the country's tallest trees. Watch
Proposal prank Eric Lanford of "News to Me" gets the low-down on a prank war that's raging out of control. Watch
