Boxing world champion Wladimir Klitschko has told CNN that David Haye will become the 50th knockout victim of his career when the two face-off in July.
The IBF, IBO and WBO heavyweight champion is set to face WBA champ Haye in Hamburg, Germany, on July 2 in a bid to unify four of the division's five belts.
The Ukrainian recently pulled out of his scheduled April 30 fight with another British boxer, Derek Chisora, and boasts a formidable record during his 15-year career, winning 55 of his 58 fights -- 49 coming via knockout.
And he claims Haye is the perfect man to help him notch up a landmark half century.
He told CNN: "I knocked out 49 fighters and David Haye is going to be the 50th on my list. I am looking forward to it, I will get a great challenge in the ring.
"He will try to get through with his strategy, psychological and physical game and I'm ready for it because I'm a true professional athlete and have been doing it for such a long time. I love to be challenged."
Londoner Haye can also point to an impressive record in the sport, having won 25 of his 26 fights, 23 coming via knockout.
The 30-year-old moved up from the Cruiserweight division in 2008 and has made public his desire to fight Wladimir, and his older brother, the WBC heavyweight champion Vitali, before he retires on his birthday -- October 13 this year.
When Wladimir was asked what would happen if Haye was to win their July bout, he replied: "(Defeat) is not an option -- myself and Vitali are going to unify all the belts.
"Haye is quick and his record speaks for itself. He won a lot of fights by knockout, so I will not underestimate his speed or his punching power.
"I've been in boxing for last 15 years and I'm going to be close to 60 fights, I know exactly what to expect from every single opponent."
Wladimir also denied that he will enjoy any advantage from the fact that the contest will be staged in Germany -- the country that has hosted many of his title fights in the past.
He explained: "It's not really an advantage because the ring is the same everywhere -- it has four corners with a referee in between you and your opponent.
"It's all about the way you fight and how you follow through with your plan and tactics."
