Liverpool continued their improvement under manager Kenny Dalglish with a superb 1-0 Premier League win at Chelsea, making it a debut to forget for striker Fernando Torres against his former club.
Torres joined champions Chelsea from Liverpool for a British record transfer fee of $80m last Monday and fate decreed that he would make his debut against his former club.
But, playing alongside Didier Drogba and Nicolas Anelka in a three-pronged strike-force, the Spanish international had a debut to forget -- missing two good chances to open his account for his new club before eventually being substituted by manager Carlo Ancelotti in the second half.
Torres: I couldn't wait for Liverpool revival
Chelsea had shown improved form in recent weeks, following a dismal run that had seen them slip away from title contention.
And they were handed futher impetus to improve their league position with leaders Manchester United and second-placed Arsenal both dropping points on Saturday.
But Chelsea proved no match for a disciplined and determined Liverpool side, who have now won four matches in a row under Dalgish, keeping a clean sheet on each occasion.
The only goal of an absorbing match came in the 69th minute when in-form Portuguese midfielder Raul Meireles took advantage of hesitancy in the home defense to rifle home Steven Gerrard's teasing ball from the right.
It was Meireles' fourth goal in five matches and lifts Liverpool up to sixth place, just six points off a Champions League place.
Chelsea's seventh defeat leaves them fourth, ahead of Tottenham on goal difference, but still 10 points behind Manchester United with just 13 games left.
Meanwhile, in the day's other match, Birmingham City moved out of the bottom three after a vital 1-0 win at West Ham, who now prop up the table after this defeat.
Nikola Zigic headed home Sebatian Larsson's left-wing free-kick to secure the points for the visitors, as Birmingham followed up their recent League Cup semifinal win over West Ham with another victory over the east London side.
West Ham are on 24 points, level with Wolverhampton but with an inferior goal difference. Wigan are the other side in the bottom three, two points better off in 18th position.
