In his 11 years in charge at Goodison Park, David Moyes never witnessed an Everton victory at Old Trafford.
At least now he can scratch that off his 'to do list'.
A 1-0 home defeat by his former employer courtesy of Bryan Oviedo's 86th minute strike means Manchester United is now 12 points adrift of league leader Arsenal after just 14 games of the season.
"I'm very disappointed," United manager Moyes told Sky Sports following Wednesday's game.
"We needed a bit of good fortune and we didn't get it. Everton kept at it and showed us what a good team they are.
"We didn't defend the goal well enough so it was our own doing. We had some chances as well, as did Everton. they have been playing well and that's why they are up near the top of the league.
"It wasn't about me tonight, I was fortunate to manage Everton and I'm fortunate to be managing Manchester United. It's a big catch up for us now."
Moyes was left frustrated after his side, which included former Everton midfielder Marouane Fellaini, failed to fire.
It was Everton's first success on the red half of Manchester since 1992 but it could scarcely have come at a better time for Roberto Martinez's side.
When Moyes left Goodison to replace Alex Ferguson at the end of last season, much of the talk was how United would move forward.
Instead, it is Everton which has moved on -- climbing to fifth in the table while playing a far more expansive brand of football.
"It was a big battle today," Martinez told Sky Sports.
"We were outstanding at playing Manchester United eye-to-eye.
"It is fair to say we did expect United to have their chances, but we were very confident with Tim Howard and our defenders.
"As an away team, you normally feel you will have only one or two chances maximum. But with our ambition, we created many, many chances.
"If you look at the overall position we deserved all three points and that is an incredible statement."
While Everton was busy pulling off a stunning win, Merseyside neighbor Liverpool was also in the midst of something special as Luis Suarez scored four times in his side's 5-1 mauling of Norwich.
Suarez, who has now 11 goals against Norwich in four appearances, including three hat-tricks, took his career tally to 51 Premier League goals.
Raheem Sterling rounded off the scoring to leave Liverpool in fourth -- seven points off the top.
Elsewhere, Arsenal remains four points clear at the top of the table following a comfortable 2-0 home win over Hull City.
Nicklas Bendtner gave the home side an early lead before Mesut Ozil sealed the win in the second half.
Arsene Wenger's men sit above Chelsea which earned a 4-3 win at Sunderland.
Eden Hazard scored twice and Frank Lampard was also on target in a seven-goal thriller.
Manchester City remains in the hunt following a 3-2 win at West Bromwich Albion.
City, which is currently third, survived a late fightback after sailing into a three-goal lead with Yaya Toure's double adding to Sergio Aguero's opener.
Elsewhere, Tottenham claimed a 2-1 win at Fulham, Aston Villa beat Southampton 3-2 while Cardiff claimed a point at Stoke following a goalless draw.
France
In France, Paris Saint-Germain suffered a shock 2-0 defeat at Evian as it failed to equal the record for its longest unbeaten streak in the top flight.
PSG entered the contest unbeaten in 26 previous league matches, one short of the record set by the title winning side of 1993-94.
It had also hoped to equal the overall run of 36 games without defeat in all competitions -- a streak which does not include the penalty shoot-out defeat by Evian in last season's French Cup.
Again it was Evian which proved to be PSG's undoing with Clarck Nsikulu and on-loan Marseille winger Modou Sougou doing the damage late on.
PSG is now just a point clear of Lille at the top of the table and two clear of third place Monaco.
Germany
Bayern Munich booked its place in the last eight of the German Cup with a 2-0 win at Augsburg, despite losing winger Arjen Robben to injury.
Robben, who opened the scoring after just four minutes, was forced out of the tie following a collision with Augsburg keeper Marwin Hitz.
The Dutchman's replacement, Thomas Muller, scored his side's second 12 minutes from time to seal the win.
Elsewhere, there were wins for Bayer Leverkusen, Eintracht Frankfurt and Wolfsburg.
