Las Vegas police still don't know what set off the incident, what prompted the driver of a gray Honda Accord to hit an man and leave him writhing in pain on the pavement of Las Vegas gas station.
In the two weeks since the incident, the motorists has eluded them.
But they do have one thing: surveillance camera footage. And like other enforcement around the country, they think by releasing the video, by posting it online, they'll get the help they need.
The start of the video seems mundane.
Cars line up to get gas, people coming and going.
Then, a gray Honda Accord pulls into the parking lot of an AMPM gas station.
The Accord cuts off a man's car. The man, wearing a red cap and sweatshirt, drives around it to avoid an accident.
Later, as the man crosses the parking lot, the Accord drives up to him, nearly clipping him. Then the car moves forward, bumping the man and running him over.
As the car turns out of the station, the man is seen lying on the ground. His cap is knocked off his head. He clutches his legs.
"The guy was on the floor for 10 minutes, screaming," gas station employee Sheyla Rodriguez told CNN affiliate KVVU. "We tried to help him the most we can."
The man was seriously injured and taken to a hospital for treatment, the affiliate said.
The incident occurred February 6.
That all happened on February 6th. Police have some information about the driver, some information about the car and they know it's has a California plate.
They're hoping if the video gets views, they'll get their man.
It's not a farfetched idea.
Earlier this month, police in San Antonio released a frightening helmet camera video recorded by a motorcyclist weaving in and out of traffic. In about a week, they had their suspect in custody.
And last fall, video of an altercation between motorcyclists and an SUV driver in Manhattan resulted in several arrests.
Officer Larry Hadfield in Las Vegas thinks the same could happen in his case.
"It could take just one viewer," he told KVVU. "At no point does anyone deserve to be run over by a car in this way."
