Roger Federer aims to bounce back from his crushing final defeat in Shanghai as he enters his final four tournaments of 2010 with a long-awaited return to Sweden this week.
The 16-time Grand Slam winner moved back to second in the world rankings above Novak Djokovic despite being thrashed in straight sets by Andy Murray on Sunday.
He will open his campaign at the Stockholm Open on Thursday against American Taylor Dent in his first appearance at the ATP Tour event since 2010, having pulled out two years ago with a back injury.
The indoor hardcourt tournament is run by the Swiss star's former on-court rivals Thomas Johansson and Jonas Bjorkman.
"Physically I'm feeling good, and mentally I have a lot left in me. I don't feel like it's the end of the year. I intend to make it fun for myself," Federer told the ATP Tour website.
"It's a combination of factors behind a decision like this. I love playing tennis and love playing tournaments, and haven't played here in 10 years.
"I was supposed to have played here two years ago, but had a bad back. I thought it would be fun to come back to Stockholm, and the fact that Thomas and Jonas are in charge makes it extra special."
Federer has won just two titles this year, the Australian Open and the Cincinnati Masters, but told reporters on Tuesday that he is determined to win back his No. 1 ranking from Rafael Nadal -- who has moved well clear at the top after his Wimbledon and U.S. Open victories.
Federer will try to reduce the deficit in Stockholm, his home event in Basle, Paris and then London at the ATP Tour World Finals.
"For me there is number one and everything else. It's not too important for me to be two, three or four," he said in quotes carried by AFP.
"I'm always trying to get back to number one, it's what I'm concentrating on week by week."
Dent moved into the second round on Tuesday when Poland's Michael Przysiezny retired with an injury, having lost the first set 6-2.
Spanish sixth seed Feliciano Lopez was upset 6-2 6-2 by Germany's Florent Mayer, while his eighth-seeded compatriot Tommy Robredo crashed out with a 6-3 6-2 defeat by Croatian qualifier Ivan Dodig.
Unseeded German Benjamin Becker beat young Dutchman Thomas Schoorel 6-3 6-0 to set up a second-round clash with second-seeded home hope Robin Soderling, runner-up in 2003 and 2008.
At the Kremlin Cup in Russia, Radek Stepanek was the only seeded men's player in action on Tuesday and the Czech No. 5 overcame Romania's Victor Hanescu 7-6 (7-5) 6-3.
In the women's event, Chinese third seed Li Na was knocked out by 2006 champion Anna Chakvetadze in her opening match, having been given a wildcard entry.
The 23-year-old Russian, who has fallen to 68th in the rankings after a career-high fifth in 2007, set up a clash with the Ukraine's Mariya Koryttseva following her 6-4 6-2 victory.
Italian fifth seed Flavia Pennetta also crashed out, losing 6-4 2-6 6-2 to Russian Elena Vesnina.
Vesnina's compatriots Maria Kirilenko and Alisa Kleybanova, ranked sixth and seventh respectively, also progressed into round two.
