NBC has canceled "Whitney."
And "Guys With Kids."
And "Up All Night."
And "1600 Penn."
That's four half-hour comedies axed in one afternoon. And those are in addition to "30 Rock" and "The Office," which are having their final seasons this year. And let's not forget "Animal Practice," the network's previously cancelled comedy this season. And there still could be more carnage to come. We're also awaiting word on the fates of freshman comedies Go On and The New Normal, along with perpetual underdog veteran "Community."
What has survived? NBC renewed "Parks & Recreation" for a sixth season today. "Parks" is NBC's best-performing show on Thursday night's after The Office, though it has an average adults 18-49 rating that's less than one third of CBS' Thursday leader "The Big Bang Theory" (2.0 vs. 6.2).
NBC announced earlier that it will partly restock its lineup with a few new comedies. Highlights include Sean Hayes in Sean Saves the World, about a guy who must figure out how to parent his 14-year-old daughter, and a TV series version of the 2002 film "About a Boy," starring David Walton as a bachelor whose primary goal in life is avoiding any kind of responsibility until he meets a geeky young boy.
'Community' finale: The end (for now?)
But NBC will have a tough time regaining its former legendary Thursday night comedy dominance. CBS made serious inroads into the evening with "Big Bang" and "Two and a Half Men" frequently ruling the 8 p.m. hour. Recently CBS experimented with putting repeats of other comedies into the 9 p.m. hour, raising the possibility of a full-scale two-hour comedy invasion into the evening next fall.
Expect more NBC and CBS prime-time moves over the next several days as broadcasters prepare for their upfront presentations in New York City next week. NBC will announce its new fall schedule on Sunday and CBS will unveil its plans on Wednesday.
See the original article at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
