World number one Serena Williams won her first ever Cincinnati Open, and her 62nd career WTA title, by brushing aside Ana Ivanovic 6-4, 6-1.
Williams needed just 62 minutes to dispatch her Serbian rival and win her second title in a month.
The victory was the perfect preparation for the season's final major, the US Open, which begins in eight days time.
"It was such a great week," Williams said after the victory, before praising Ivanovic's performance.
"She was playing so hard, hitting so many winners."
Poor season
It has, by her own high standards, been a below par season for Williams.
She hasn't made it to a final of a single major so far this season.
And whilst her five titles this year -- in Miami, Brisbane, Stanford, Rome and now Cincinnati -- could be considered a good eight month's work for almost any other player, Williams is held, both by herself and her peers, to a higher standard.
Yet Cincinnati was something of a return to form. She won nine of the last ten games, pounding 12 aces and 26 winners along the way.
"I just kind of close my eyes and serve," Williams said. "When you think about it too much you get kind of crazy."
Sweet 18?
Williams will hope that her first Cincinnati title is a good omen before the US Open.
She turns 33 this year and is desperate to win another major singles title.
If she accomplishes that in New York, she'll tie with Martina Navratilova and Chris Evert, who have both won 18 majors, and will be just four behind Steffi Graf who holds the record with 22.
Federer 80-up
Later on Sunday Roger Federer won his sixth Cincinnati Open, and an incredible 80th career title, after beating Spain's David Ferrer 6-3, 1-6. 6-2.
After taking the first set it looked like the evergreen Federer would easily close out for the championship.
But Ferrer hit back in the second set 6-1 before Federer showed his fighting spirit again and took the third.
It was a sensational victory for the oldest player currently in the world top 25. He will now be heading to the US Open full of confidence after reaching the final in his past four tournaments including Wimbledon.
