Two southern Florida imams accused of supporting the Pakistani Taliban appeared briefly in a Miami federal court Monday, before a judge pushed back the legal proceedings into next week so the suspects could sort out their legal representation.
The two men -- Hafiz Khan and his son Izhar Khan -- were arrested Saturday in South Florida, the Justice Department said.
Another of Hafiz Khan's sons, Irfan Khan, was arrested that same day in El Segundo, California. Later Monday, he likewise remained in federal custody after putting off entering a plea during his own initial court appearance at the Roybal Federal Building in Los Angeles.
Three others in Pakistan also have been indicted: Khan's daughter Amina Khan, Khan's grandson Alam Zeb and Ali Rehman.
All six defendants face a four-count indictment that alleges they conspired to provide material support to a conspiracy to kill, injure and kidnap people abroad. It also alleges that they provided support to the Pakistani Taliban.
About a dozen representatives of the two imams' Florida mosques -- Flagler Mosque in Miami for Hafiz Khan, and Jamaat Al-Mu'mineen Mosque in Margate for his son Izhar -- attended Monday's court session to support the men and hear the accusations against them.
"He was their spiritual leader, so it is a shock, everyone is in shock," said Nezar Hamze, executive director of the south Florida chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, of Hafiz Khan from the Miami court.
The two were expected to be formally arraigned Monday, with the possibility of bail being set. But at the defendants' request, Magistrate Judge Barry Garber said that would instead happen on May 23.
Izhar Khan, 24, had requested a public defender, but did not meet the court's financial requirements to do so. He asked for more time to find his own lawyer, a request that Garber granted.
His father, 76-year-old Hafiz Khan, was represented by Khurrum Wahid, a Pompano Beach, Florida-based lawyer who has "represented scores of individuals detained by the government since" the September 11, 2001, attacks, according to his firm's website.
Wahid told the magistrate judge he was temporarily representing Khan, and requested more time to assess the case.
Afterward, Wahid said his primary concern was the imam's health, adding he hopes to get him home and out of the federal detention center at next week's session. He described Hafiz Khan -- who appeared frail Saturday, with white facial hair and thick glasses -- as in poor health because of a heart condition, high cholesterol and borderline diabetes, among other problems.
"My primary concern right now is getting him out," said Wahid.
The attorney added that his client plans to "challenge the evidence," if and when it is presented in court.
"At this stage, we don't have anything other than what is written on a piece of paper by the U.S. Attorney's office," Wahid said.
In Los Angeles, meanwhile, Irfan Khan appeared before Magistrate Judge Paul Abrams clad in a tan sweater vest over a dress shirt. He briefly answered a series of questions before delaying entering a plea on the charge that he is facing.
Abrams then continued the legal proceedings involving Irfan Khan to Thursday.
The indictment and all six arrests were not linked to the May 2 killing of al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in Pakistan, two U.S. officials said Saturday. The charges relate to alleged crimes committed between 2008 and 2010.
Authorities said their investigation focused on leadership at the mosques. The indictment describes a number of occasions when Hafiz Khan transferred money to Pakistan.
"Khan solicited and distributed funds for the Pakistani Taliban, both personally and on behalf of others, and worked with the co-defendants and others to support the Pakistani Taliban's jihad," the indictment says.
The court documents also state there were several conversations between Hafiz Khan and the other defendants in which Hafiz Khan called for attacks against the Pakistani government and asked whether money had been delivered to the Pakistani Taliban.
Hafiz Khan also built a madrassa in Pakistan's Swat Valley that provided shelter for the terrorist group, the indictment states.
The term "madrassa" traditionally refers to any Muslim school, but in recent years news stories about madrassas radicalizing Islamic students cast the word in a negative light.
"The main defendant Khan operated and controlled a madrassa to shelter members of the Pakistan Taliban and to train children to become military fighters for the Mujahedeen," U.S. Attorney Wilfredo A. Ferrer said.
He said authorities are aware of several unindicted co-conspirators in the United States and Pakistan.
The Pakistani Taliban represent a confederation of Taliban groups in northwestern Pakistan, where they are based, said Bill Roggio, military affairs analyst who is managing editor of The Long War Journal.
Those fighters attack targets in Pakistan and neighboring Afghanistan.
The Pakistani Taliban, which is headquartered in Quetta, is different from the Afghan Taliban, which has been focused on re-establishing the Islamic Emirate in Afghanistan.
Both groups swear allegiance to Taliban leader Mullah Omar and have close ties to al Qaeda, Roggio said.
On Monday, Hamze from the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said it was "too early to speculate" on what will be proven in the upcoming legal proceedings. Regardless, he said it should not be seen as an indictment of Muslims in the United States.
"This is my community, we are peacefully in south Florida (and) we are all American," Hamze said from Miami. "We love the United States."
CNN's John Couwels, Jeanne Meserve, Susan Candiotti, Rich Phillips and Michael Martinez contributed to this report.
