Casey Anthony responded sarcastically when her mother brought up media accounts then circulating about the possibility that 2-year-old Caylee Anthony had drowned in the family pool, according to a recording of a jailhouse conversation shown to jurors on Friday.
"Surprise, surprise," Anthony said of the rumor, which is now the primary defense theory in her capital murder trial in Orlando, Florida.
In recordings of visits played Friday for the jury, Anthony frequently accused the media of failing to accurately report on the case.
Prosecutors say Anthony used chloroform on her daughter and then put duct tape on her nose and mouth to suffocate her. The Orlando woman's attorneys say Caylee drowned in the family pool on June 16, 2008. They say Anthony and her father panicked and covered up the death.
George Anthony denied the claim during his testimony last week.
The videotaped exchange, during which Anthony became agitated with her parents as they pressed her for details of Caylee's whereabouts, was one in a series shown to jurors the past two days.
"We need to have something to go on," Cindy Anthony pleaded during the visit.
"Mom, I'm sorry. I don't have anything," Casey Anthony angrily replied. 'I've been here a month. Do you understand how I feel?"
In the videos shown to jurors on Friday, Anthony repeatedly expresses frustration at being jailed and her inability to offer additional help in the search for her daughter.
"I'm not in control over any of this 'cause I don't know what's going on," she said in one exchange. "My entire life has been taken from me. You don't understand. I don't have any answers because I don't know what's going on. I can't even say anything to you guys. I want Caylee and that's not even getting put on the air, which it should be."
Then Cindy Anthony asks her daughter if searchers should be looking for anything in Lake County, Florida. That prompts Casey Anthony to threaten to hang up the phone.
"This is the first time I've truly been angry the entire time," she said. "I'm frustrated beyond belief."
She also complains about her isolation.
"You guys still have each other to lean on," Anthony told her parents. "I don't have anybody."
In another video that opened the day's evidence, Anthony praised her parents and said she just wanted to be home with them and her daughter.
"I know we're going to see Caylee. I know she's coming home. I can feel it," Anthony said during the tearful visit recorded in 2008. Caylee was reported missing on July 15, a month after she was last seen by her family. Her skeletal remains were found in December of 2008 not far from the Anthony home.
Anthony, 25, is charged with seven counts in Caylee's death, including first-degree murder, aggravated child abuse and misleading police. If convicted, she could face the death penalty.
She has pleaded not guilty and denied harming her daughter or having anything to do with the little girl's disappearance.
In testimony offered Friday, an Orange County sheriff's detective and a missing persons investigator spoke about collecting evidence from the Anthony home and an impound lot where Anthony's Pontiac Sunfire had been towed, and two crime scene investigators discussed mostly technical aspects of collecting evidence.
But crime scene investigator Gerardo Bloise also said that when he opened the car's door to begin documenting the evidence contained inside, "I immediately smelled the odor of decomposition."
Anthony's father, mother and brother, as well as a tow-yard manager previously testified smelling that type of odor coming from the car.
Bloise later said the odor was, in his opinion, likely the smell of human decomposition, though during questioning from the defense he admitted it could also have been caused by an animal.
According to evidence in the case, Anthony once claimed the car had part of an animal lodged in the undercarriage. Bloise said he found no animal carcasses on the underside of the car.
"I know that smell from a decomposed body because that smell is unique. Once you smell it, you will never forget," Bloise said.
He also testified he found a human hair in the trunk.
Authorities have previously disclosed that a hair sample collected from the trunk showed evidence of decomposition.
On Thursday, jurors watched recordings of jailhouse visits during which Anthony gave visitors information about the nanny she claimed kidnapped the girl.
"If you can speak to the media directly, my concern for me is Caylee," a tearful Anthony tells her brother, Lee Anthony, on July 25, 2008, from an Orange County jail.
They also heard a recording of a police interview in which she admitted misleading investigators while still maintaining her daughter had been kidnapped. In the interview, investigators pleaded with Anthony to tell the truth about what happened to Caylee.
"None of us are sitting here believing what you're saying because everything that's coming out of your mouth is a lie," Detective Yuri Melich told Anthony during the interview.
Another investigator accused her of not telling the truth.
"If the main thing you want to do is find your daughter, and you don't think lying to us is going to help find her, why would you do that?" investigator Sgt. John Allen asked on the tape.
"Because I'm scared and I -- I know I'm running out of options," Anthony said. "It's been a month. ... I'm scared of not seeing my daughter ever again."
Prosecutors allege Anthony was not looking for her daughter during the month she was missing. Instead, she was staying with her boyfriend, spending time in Orlando with numerous friends, attending parties, going shopping and hitting nightclubs, including participating in a "hot body" contest, according to evidence in the case.
Her former boyfriend, friends and acquaintances have all testified that she did not mention her daughter being missing during that time and that they noticed nothing different about her demeanor.
Anthony's defense team explains her behavior in the weeks following Caylee's death by saying she had been sexually abused by her father and had taught to conceal her pain. George Anthony has denied abusing his daughter.
Watch Nancy Grace Monday through Sunday starting at 8 p.m. ET on HLN. For the latest from Nancy Grace click here.
