Looking at the world's most beautiful women, from actresses to musicians to models, AskMen.com wanted its users to consider one thing above all else: Would you date them?
AskMen released its list of the "Top 99 Most Desirable Women of 2012" Tuesday, based on the results of polling both readers and office staff. While Editor-in-Chief James Bassil agrees that it's not as easy to qualify a woman you've only seen on TV as a potential girlfriend, the list isn't just made up of gorgeous models.
"Looks are obviously a big one for guys -- there's no question about that -- but other factors are where a woman is in life, the kind of career she's in and the success or ambition that reflects. Sincerity and loyalty, all of those values that guys appreciate. We ask them to try to really assess the candidates as prospective girlfriends and rank them according to that. That's what really distinguishes the list from a straight-up 'hot women list.' "
"Modern Family's" Sofia Vergara nabbed the top honors and, at age 39, is the "most senior No. 1 we've had," Bassil said.
"Seeing her in the show's family context contributes to that desirability perception and those very criteria that we ask users to judge them by," he said. "There's no question that she's hot. She does lots of interviews where she's funny and charming and seems easygoing -- all of those personal characteristics that guys prize in women. It seems like there is a sincerity there too, and that's a huge thing for guys in relationships."
While models have their fair share of representation on the list, a few surprises also sneaked into the top numbers.
Kate Upton, Rooney Mara, Miranda Kerr, Nicki Minaj, Emma Stone, Scarlett Johansson, Kim Kardashian, Rihanna and Candice Swanepoel made up the rest of the top 10.
While Victoria's Secret models are enjoying more visibility these days because of increased TV specials, Bassil doesn't believe they're at the same level of supermodels from the '80s and '90s, like Cindy Crawford and Claudia Schiffer.
Noticeably absent were Angelina Jolie and Jennifer Aniston. Bassil believes men are "fatigued" by the two actresses. Jolie's private, reserved life makes her too much of a mystery without allowing insight into her personality, while Aniston has never performed well on the list, Bassil said.
Newcomers like Lana Del Rey, Emilia Clarke, Adele, Kreayshawn, and Paz de la Huerta edged standbys from past years aside. Kristen Wiig outranked Tina Fey at No. 36, while Fey dropped to No. 97. Former child stars are also being perceived as the mature young women they've grown into, like Selena Gomez and Emma Watson, ranked respectively at Nos. 14 and 17.
Kate Middleton, making the list at No. 11, beat her sister, Pippa, by a long shot. The younger sibling barely made the list at No. 98, but Bassil believes that may be a reflection of the new voting system.
The voting, which began in October, lasted just over six weeks, with an initial pool of 170 candidates. Users ranked their top 10 on a personal list, and each woman received points for being added to a list, as well as her ranking on the list. The results created one list of 99 candidates. AskMen's staff also conducted an internal vote, and the two lists combined represent the final product.
