An autopsy to determine why Rodney King was found dead in his swimming pool began Monday morning, but it will be several weeks before the findings are made public, a San Bernadino County, California, coroner's spokeswoman said Monday.
King, whose beating by Los Angeles police in 1991 was caught on camera and sparked riots after the acquittal of the four officers involved, was found dead at his Rialto, California, home early Sunday, authorities and his fiancee said. He was 47.
Rialto police received a 911 call from King's fiancee, Cynthia Kelly, about 5:25 a.m., Capt. Randy De Anda said. Responding officers found King at the bottom of the pool, removed him and performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation until paramedics arrived. He was pronounced dead at a local hospital, police said.
Rodney King looks back without anger
A preliminary autopsy report will not be released, coroner spokeswoman Jody Miller said. The coroner will wait until a full report, based on the toxicology exam findings, is available in six to eight weeks, Miller said.
There were no preliminary signs of foul play and no obvious injuries on King's body, De Anda said. Police are conducting a drowning investigation, he said.
Kelly, who was a juror in King's lawsuit against the city of Los Angeles in 1994, told police that King was an "avid swimmer" but that she was not, De Anda said. She said the two had just had a conversation and she went inside, but came back out after hearing a splash and saw him at the bottom of the pool.
De Anda said he did not see any drug paraphernalia "or anything that would indicate that Mr. King was intoxicated" at the scene.
Nearly a year after the rioting in Los Angeles, the four officers stood trial in federal court on civil rights charges. Two were found guilty and sentenced to 30 months in prison, and two were acquitted. King also sued the city of Los Angeles and was awarded $3.8 million in damages.
Overheard on CNN.com: Rodney King 'had demons. But called them his own'
Photos: Rodney King and the LA Riots
Rodney King: A timeline from 1991 to 2012
CNN's Chuck Conder contributed to this report.
