(CNN Student News) -- May 29, 2014
President Obama discusses his foreign policy during a speech at West Point. We'll tell you what critics have said regarding this issue and how the president responded. Today's show also looks back on the turbulent and triumphant life of Maya Angelou, and we pass along some tips on driving safely during a dangerous season. We'll also peer into what the future may hold for world cities.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
In your opinion, what should news media include when reporting on a presidential speech?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. U.S. Military Academy
2. foreign policy
3. Maya Angelou
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is meant by the term "foreign policy"? What major foreign policy points did President Obama address during yesterday's speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point? What have critics said about the president's foreign policy?
2. Who was Maya Angelou? What do we know about her childhood? Who are some of the civil rights leaders she worked with? What are some of the different careers that she had? What are some of the awards she received?
3. What is Bluefin-21? What was it searching for? Where was it conducting its missions? Why are authorities temporarily suspending this search? What is the role of the Chinese vessel in this area?
4. What does the "city of the future" look like in Songdo, South Korea? What are some of the features of Masdar City in Abu Dhabi? What will homes and streets look like in Fujisawa, Japan? Who is financing each of these cities? So far, how have these cities been received? What is being done to attract more residents?
5. Why is AAA warning teens about the 100 days that begin on Memorial Day? What tips does the organization offer for safer teen driving?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion of President Obama's foreign policy? Do you agree or disagree with his approach to events in Ukraine, Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan? Explain. Are there any foreign policy issues that you think deserve more or less attention than they are getting? Explain.
2. What do you think happened to Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? Why do you think that the plane has not yet been found? Do you think the search should continue? Why or why not?
3. In what ways are the futuristic cities seen in the video "laboratories"? What do you think could be learned here? Would you consider living in one of these cities? Why or why not?
4. In spite of numerous laws, classes, and PSAs, car accidents are still a leading cause of death for teenagers. What, if anything, do you think can be done to promote safer driving among teens?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
