At least 34 people were killed and 94 injured after twin explosions rocked a market in the Sadar area of Peshawar, Pakistan, authorities said early Sunday.
The first blast, relatively small, went off in the restroom of a restaurant in the crowded Khyber Super Market, according to Shafqat Malik, chief of bomb disposal in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.
People gathered at the scene and many were casualties after a suicide bomber on a motorbike arrived at the restaurant minutes later and set off explosives, Malik told CNN.
Muhammad Ejaz Khan, a senior police official in Peshawar, said about 10 kilograms of explosives were used in the second blast.
The neighborhood is a residential area popular with single professionals and students. It features hotels and shops.
Saif Ul Islam Saifi, president of the press club in Peshawar, said one journalist was killed and nine others were hurt. A provincial minister said two journalists died. There are several media offices in the area.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility.
Peshawar and the surrounding region have been swamped by a wave of violence in recent months.
Just a week ago, on June 5, at least 19 people were killed and dozens wounded at a bakery in the town of Nowshera, about 26 miles (42 kilometers) east of Peshawar.
That same day, three women and a child were among those killed in an explosion at a bus stand in Matni, 13 miles (22 kilometers) from Peshawar.
On May 25, a suicide bomber rammed a police station in Peshawar, killing at least seven police officers. Officials said about 660 pounds (300 kilograms) of explosives were packed into a minitruck.
More than 60 militants attacked a security checkpoint near Peshawar on May 18. Ten militants and at least two security personnel were killed in the ensuing gun battle.
A roadside bomb was planted near the Peshawar home of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province's agriculture minister on May 8. It detonated as guests were leaving the minister's house, injuring at least four people.
A 12-year-old boy died in a suicide blast April 1 in a town about 34 miles (55 kilometers) southwest of Peshawar.
On March 9, at least 37 people were killed in a suicide attack on the funeral of the wife of a pro-government militia member. A suicide bomber detonated explosives during a funeral procession on the outskirts of Peshawar.
Eight girls were injured on March 1 when militants on motorbikes threw grenades into a girls' school in Mardan, nearly 25 miles (40 kilometers) north of Peshawar.
More than two dozen militants wielding automatic weapons attacked NATO oil tankers on February 25, at a terminal on the outskirts of Peshawar. Four people were killed and explosive devices were planted under a dozen tankers.
On February 10, a teenage suicide bomber killed at least 27 army recruits in Mardan. The suicide bomber was about 14 and was wearing a school uniform when he detonated his explosives in a military training center.
A powerful car bomb rocked a neighborhood on the outskirts of Peshawar on February 2. At least nine people were killed and 21 injured.
Police were the target of a double attack in Peshawar on January 31. A bomber walked in front of a marked police van and blew himself up, killing at least four. Another police officer was killed by a bomb while on patrol hours later.
A remote-controlled bomb exploded near a school in Peshawar on January 19. At least two people were killed and 10 wounded.
Another school bus was hit by a remote-controlled bomb on the outskirts of Peshawar on January 12. The bus was carrying female teachers and students. Two teachers were killed and seven students wounded.
Journalist Lehaz Ali contributed to this report.
