Jury selection in the case of Casey Anthony, who is charged in the death of her 2-year-old daughter, continued Tuesday as attorneys removed several people from the viable jury pool.
The day was a setback for Chief Judge Belvin Perry Jr. of the Orange County Superior Court, who has said he wants to seat a jury as quickly as possible. The selection process has so far lasted eight days.
The goal is to have everything finalized for opening statements this week.
Attorneys and the judge have rejected potential jurors for reasons ranging from financial hardship to bias.
Anthony, 25, is charged with capital murder in the death of her daughter Caylee. The young girl's skeletal remains were found in woods near her family's home in December 2008 after she went missing for six months.
Anthony has pleaded not guilty.
She faces six other charges, including aggravated child abuse, aggravated manslaughter of a child and misleading law enforcement.
Jury selection is taking place at the Pinellas County courthouse in Clearwater, Florida.
Attorneys on both sides struck several jurors Tuesday, whittling the potential pool of vetted candidates to just 11 -- six women and five men. Monday ended with 17 such candidates. Those remaining could still be cut before they are sworn in to serve.
Twelve jurors and eight alternates were expected to be seated on the jury, which will be moved to and sequestered in Orange County, where the alleged crime happened and where the trial will take place.
However, Perry on Monday raised the possibility the trial could move forward with fewer than eight alternates.
"We will have what we will have," he said.
Perry had said previously he would begin swearing in jurors once the number of unrejected candidates reached 15.
Jury selection was moved from Orlando to Clearwater amid intense media coverage of the case, which could make it difficult to select an impartial jury.
Prosecutors have said they plan to show Anthony used "a substance" to kill her daughter.
Meanwhile, outside the courthouse, the parents of Casey Anthony are working to obtain trademarks for "Caylee Anthony" and "Justice for Caylee," according to their attorney, in a bid to prevent people from selling products that use their granddaughter's name.
Mark Lippman, who represents George and Cindy Anthony, said they have also sent a demand letter, the first step in filing a claim for libel, to CafePress, a California-based online retailer that markets such products.
HLN's Natisha Lance and In Session's Michael Christian contributed to this report.
Watch Nancy Grace Monday through Sunday starting at 8 p.m. ET on HLN. For the latest from Nancy Grace click here.
