April Fool's Day is a tricky time of year when bizarre but often hilarious headlines and products flood our newspapers, Twitter streams and Facebook feeds.
This year has seen a fantastic plethora of pranks from the likes of Google, BMW, Twitter and more. But did they manage to trick you? CNN rounds up some of the best April Fools Day jokes from 2013.
Twitter has announced it will no longer allow the use of vowels in tweets. The social networking service says that by eliminating vowels, they are helping users to a "more efficient, and 'dense' form of communication."
They also hope it will increase revenue streams because if you can't live in a world without vowels, Twttr -- as it has renamed itself -- will allow you to tweet A, E, I, O and U for the small fee of $5 a month.
Read more April Fools tech tricks
Richard Branson proudly announced Virgin's latest endeavour -- the world's first glass-bottomed plane. Virgin Atlantic's Innovation team has apparently been secretly working on modifying an A320 aircraft which will fly between London and Aberdeen.
Branson said: "I am incredibly proud of yet another aviation breakthrough which has been years in the making. I can't wait to experience the first flight for myself with my family and other natural born explorers."
In a story headlined, "Who needs to tweet when you've got the Roy-owl Mail," the Daily Mail reported that an animal sanctuary in the northern England has trained owls to deliver their internal mail in the face of budget cuts and an internal backlog.
The Sun broke news that The Rolling Stones spent Easter weekend practicing their camping skills ahead of the band headlining the Glastonbury Festival later this year.
The Guardian has launched its own augmented reality device, Guardian Goggles, which will "beam its journalism directly into the wearer's visual field, enabling users to see the world through the Guardian's eyes at all times."
As well as specially-curated Guardian content in real-time, the glasses also feature "optional built-in anti-bigotry technology."
To celebrate the arrival of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's baby this summer, BMW has unveiled their limited edition P.R.A.M (Postnatal Royal Auto Mobile). The soft-top convertible features "EfficientDynamics" technology and comes with two or four-wheel-drive, "air conditioning and extendable flagpoles as standard."
YouTube has announced it will shut down the popular video-sharing website. In a video posted online, YouTube CEO Salar Kamangar says: "We started YouTube in 2005 as a contest with a simple goal to find the best video in the world. We had no idea we'd get such a great response."
All videos that are uploaded before midnight will be reviewed by 30,000 YouTube technicians and the winner will be announced in ten years.
Lastly, Google has debut its new odour service, Google Nose Beta. It aims to increase its search engine strength by allowing users to search for smells which are then emitted through their computer screen or mobile device for the "sharpest olfactory experience."
