Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has called on his team to continue their rejuvenated bid to win the English Premier League title in the wake of the horrific broken leg suffered by young midfielder Aaron Ramsey.
The 19-year-old Wales international has been ruled out for the rest of the season after sustaining fractures to the tibia and fibula in his right leg in Saturday's 3-1 victory against Stoke City.
The injury, caused by a challenge from Stoke's new England squad member Ryan Shawcross, brought back memories of the horror break suffered by Arsenal teammate Eduardo against Birmingham two years ago.
Ramsey is seen as a star of the future, having impressed after making 29 appearances in his second season with the club.
The Londoners battled back from 1-0 down at Stoke to move to within three points of leaders Chelsea, who had two players sent off in a 4-2 defeat at home to Manchester City on Saturday.
Wenger believes his team can still win the title despite recent defeats to Chelsea and second-placed Manchester United.
"It will be tight until the end," the Frenchman told the club's official Web site. "But this group is so strong mentally and have a unity, so this will give us one more reason to fight until the end and do it for him.
"We had some other problems two years ago. But on Saturday we had a midfield of Nasri, Fabregas, Ramsey, Song, Eboue. They have an average of 20 or 21 years old. Up front, Bendtner is 21 years old.
"At their age, to handle the game like they did is absolutely remarkable."
Wenger's dedication to "the beautiful game" has often seen his team criticized for being "soft" but he said that he often tells his players off for not committing to tackles.
"I encourage my players to play and be committed," he said. "I have a go at them when they don't put their foot in sometimes.
"But as well, sometimes I nearly feel guilty to do that because when Aaron goes for the ball like he did on Saturday and gets done like he did, it is not an easy situation.
"But the way I try to play the game, I believe, is the right way. When we don't win I get a lot of stick because of that way, but I still prefer to continue to play like that.
"We will respect the game, the opponents and try to give pleasure to people who watch us."
