David Kong is a hospitality industry leader and innovator with a distinguished 35-year career.
David Kong, CEO, Best Western
Since 2004, he has served as president and CEO of Best Western International. As CEO, he has brought the chain successive years of double-digit reservations system revenue growth, its healthiest balance sheet, its highest member satisfaction levels and unprecedented media coverage.
Kong has also helped Best Western to achieve a number of notable industry firsts. Best Western was the first brand to offer free high-speed Internet access at all of its North American properties; first to launch virtual tours for each of its North American hotels on the brand's Web site; first to offer electronic gift cards redeemable in various currencies and for free nights; and first to initiate strategic and exclusive partnerships with NASCAR® and Harley-Davidson®.
Kong has a strong background in international development. Over the last four years, he has helped make Best Western the largest international hotel brand in Asia with more than 100 hotels -- including 30 properties in China. He recently negotiated a master license agreement with Cabana Hotels, which will invest over $1.2 billion and establish 100 Best Western hotels in India over the next decade.
Before being named its CEO, Kong served as Best Western's executive vice president of international operations. He distinguished himself in other areas of the company, leading strategic services, operations, marketing and global development departments.
His career includes experience with top hotel brands, including Hyatt Hotels, where he spent nearly 20 years in senior-level positions; Omni International; Regent International; and Hilton Hotels. Kong came to Best Western from KPMG Consulting's hospitality and real estate practice.
Kong completed the Executive Development Program at the Kellogg Graduate School of Management from Northwestern University and has a bachelor's degree in Business Administration in Travel Industry Management from the University of Hawaii.
He currently serves on the board of directors and executive committee of the American Hotel & Lodging Association.
