GLASGOW, Scotland -- Ronaldinho scored twice as Barcelona wrapped up their Scottish pre-season tour with a convincing 3-1 win over Hearts before a record 57,857 home crowd on Saturday.
Two-goal Ronaldinho played a key part in Barcelona's convincing 3-1 win.
The Brazilian put Barca ahead with a 21st-minute penalty and restored their lead with a 40th-minute header after Finn Juho Makela had stabbed in a quick equalizer from Christophe Berra's header across goal.
Second-half substitute Thierry Henry, who scored in Barcelona's 1-0 win over Dundee United on Thursday, set up the third six minutes after the interval for Mexican teenager Giovanni Dos Santos.
The Frenchman ended a fine run by squaring a pass to the 18-year-old who slotted home from close range.
The friendly was played at Murrayfield, home of the Scotland rugby union team, to accommodate a bigger crowd.
The previous record for a Hearts home match was 53,396 for a Scottish FA Cup match against Rangers in 1932.
Arsenal were 2-1 winners over Paris St Germain and Valencia beat Inter Milan 2-0 on the first day of the pre-season Emirates Cup tournament.
Both games were played at Arsenal's Emirates Stadium where the friendly tournament ends on Sunday with Arsenal playing Inter and Valencia facing PSG.
Valencia recorded a comfortable win over the Italian champions.
Jaime Gavilan opened the scoring, collecting a long ball forward and beating Inter keeper Francesco Toldo from a tight angle. Striker David Villa made it 2-0 before the break with a deflected free kick.
Arsenal's French midfielder Mathieu Flamini put the hosts ahead on the stroke of half-time in the day's second game, with his first-time shot flashing in off the post.
Danish forward Nicklas Bendtner poked home their second in a goalmouth melee in the 70th minute and Peguy Luyindula scored PSG's consolation goal 10 minutes from time before Bendtner missed a late penalty.
Rangers beat Chelsea 2-0 with both goals coming in the last four minutes of their pre-season friendly at Ibrox.
Spanish substitute striker Nacho Novo fired home the opening goal with a 20-meter shot, after taking a neat pass from Chris Burke in the 86th minute.
Three minutes later Slovakian striker Filip Sebo cracked home another goal from 20 meters out. The ball appeared to be flying wide until it took a deflection off a defender and went into the net.
The match was played in a competitive spirit with several tough tackles flying in from the two sides who finished runners-up in their respective Scottish Premier and English Premier leagues last season.
Chelsea's best chance came with a first half header from Didier Drogba which flashed across the face of the goal.
Darren Bent's double and a goal by Dimitar Berbatov enabled Tottenham Hotspur to end their South African tour with a 3-0 win over Orlando Pirates on Saturday.
All the goals came in the first 22 minutes, with Bent opening the scoring in the 10th with a stinging shot before providing a simple tap-in for strike partner Berbatov eight minutes later, after dispossessing Pirates defender Destin Makita.
Bent then hit the bar before finding the net again following a fine flowing move at the Loftus Versfeld Stadium.
Tottenham won the three-team tournament having beaten the Pirates 2-1 in Cape Town on Tuesday after starting their tour last weekend with a 2-1 win over Kaizer Chiefs in Durban. E-mail to a friend
