(Mashable)  -- Twitter's number of monthly unique visitors finally surpassed that of MySpace in August. Though it ranked third among social networking sites, Twitter ranked #50 in the list of top 50 properties overall. The numbers were crunched by the marketing research firm comScore.
Twitter's lead over MySpace was marginal -- 96 million versus 95 million -- but the trend over time paints a prettier picture of the microblogging service. Between August 2009 and August 2010, Twitter grew 76 percent while MySpace dropped 17 percent.
It's apples and oranges, though. Twitter is now a social publishing and news discussion platform more than anything, and MySpace is attempting to position itself as a destination for young people to discover new music, movies and games. Both appeal to brands that want to reach new people, but they're very different tools for very different kinds of brands.
Both sites look quite small next to Facebook, which reached 598 million monthly uniques in the same month. It grew 54% over the past year. The second most popular social network, Windows Live, managed 140 million uniques, putting it closer to Twitter than to Facebook.
Twitter has been moving quickly to capitalize on this growth. First it announced a new version of the front page that will make it easier to access photos, videos and other information without using other websites or programs. Many of Twitter's users rarely visit the website at all; they instead use desktop software or third-party interfaces on other websites to access their tweets.
For that reason, Twitter's actual reach might be higher than the numbers from comScore imply. A revamped website could lead people to use Twitter.com instead of whatever they're using right now however, increasing the number of unique visitors the site receives now and in the future.
Twitter already cashed in on its numerous users with Promoted Tweets, and now it will reach out to businesses with the "Promoted Accounts" system, which allows companies to buy visibility among their target market's "Who to Follow" suggestions.
© 2011 MASHABLE.com. All rights reserved.
