With many focused on the Penn State child sex abuse scandal, a South Carolina military college said Saturday it regrets not pursuing an allegation against a camp counselor further than it did.
The Citadel released details on one of its alumni, Louis Neal "Skip" ReVille, who faces charges including criminal sexual conduct with a child.
In 2007, the college received an allegation that five years earlier, ReVille invited two campers at The Citadel Summer Camp into his room to watch pornography. They did not touch each other, but engaged in sexual activity, the college said.
"Though the general counsel was unable to corroborate the accusation, the college continued its investigation with the camper's family, who made it clear they were very concerned about maintaining their privacy and not having their names publicized.
"Despite the concerns of the family, whose right to privacy was foremost on our minds, we regret that we did not pursue this matter further," Citadel President Lt. Gen John. W. Rosa and Doug Snyder, chairman of The Citadel Board of Visitors, wrote in a statement.
The Citadel, in Charleston, South Carolina, said a review of ReVille's records at the time revealed no other complaints, and his file included a clean background check. He was a highly respected cadet and denied the accusation, the college said.
Four years later, Reville faces various charges, including criminal sexual conduct and committing or attempting lewd acts on a minor. He was arrested late last month.
His attorney, Craig Jones Jr., has said his client is sorry for what he did, according to CNN affiliate WCBD-TV. Jones declined to comment to CNN Saturday on the Citadel statement.
WCBD also reported that ReVille, 32, was the upper school principal at Coastal Christian Prep in Mount Pleasant, South Carolina, and had held a number of positions over the years working with area children.
"Hopefully the way he's cooperated, that's one way he can hopefully show ... do what he can to help the victims to whatever extent he can," Jones said, according to WCBD. "There's no way that, obviously, he can repair the damage that's been done."
Graphic child sexual abuse allegations have rocked Penn State for the last week, leading to the ouster of the university's president and iconic head football coach Joe Paterno.
