Washington (CNN)An off-duty member of the Uniformed Division of Secret Service was arrested Friday in Washington and charged with first-degree attempted burglary, a felony, and one misdemeanor count for destruction of property, the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department reported.
Arthur Baldwin, 29, was arrested at a woman's residence in Southeast Washington, according to documents provided by the police department. He has been placed on administrative leave and his security clearance has been suspended, the Secret Service said.
Baldwin is assigned to the Foreign Missions Branch, according to U.S. Secret Service Spokesman Brian Leary. That branch is responsible for working with the diplomatic community in Washington.
A police officer went to a residence about 12:24 a.m. after receiving a call about a burglary in progress, police documents said.
The officer found the front door with broken hinges, boot prints and two broken windows, the documents say. The woman who lives there told the officer, "My ex-boyfriend won't leave me alone."
While the D.C. Metropolitan Police officer was at the scene, Baldwin drove up, said he was a police officer and asked to speak with the woman, the police document said.
When asked if he kicked in the door, Baldwin said, "I kicked the door but did not ... break the windows," the document said.
When a CNN reporter asked for a comment Friday during an arraignment, Baldwin said, "No, you'll get me in trouble."
His next court date is April 23. The U.S. Attorney's Office said the charge of attempted first-degree burglary carries a sentence of up to five years in prison. The charge of destruction of property carries a sentence of up to 180 days in jail and/or a fine of up to $1,000.
RELATED: Secret Service supervisor accused of making unwanted sexual advances
The incident comes as the Secret Service is trying to mend its reputation after numerous issues concerning the discipline and professionalism of its officers have come to light recently.
More specifics on this incident were not yet available. Leary also said the Secret Service's "Office of Professional Responsibility will investigate this matter."
