Defending champions Manchester United made it two wins out of two in the new English Premier League season as they beat Tottenham 3-0 at Old Trafford.
Second half goals from Danny Welbeck, Anderson and Wayne Rooney sealed a comfortable victory for Alex Ferguson's youthful side, who went joint top of the table.
It marked defeat for Tottenham in their opening game of the season after their first fixture of the new campaign was canceled due to the London riots.
Victory took United level at the summit with rivals Manchester City, who maintained their 100 per cent record with a 3-2 win at Bolton on Sunday.
United manager Alex Ferguson told Sky Sports: "The second half was absolutely fantastic. I thought it a fast game, end-to-end, it was very even but in the second half we took off and it was a fantastic performance."
On hearing it was the second youngest team Manchester United had fielded in the Premier League era Ferguson added: "It tells you we still believe in young players, more so when you see the ability they've got.
"This group have fantastic ability -- they force you to play them."
On Welbeck he added: "He's always shown great loyalty Danny, when we put him on loan at Sunderland last season that's when he grew up.
"He's a bit rangy, a long-legged boy who can gallop quickly, he's a good footballer and has a great attitude to win the ball back."
Tom Cleverley was the first to test Tottenham's goalkeeper Brad Friedel as the veteran American turned his goal-bound effort round the post before Ashley Young went close with a looping header from Rooney's cross.
Jermain Defoe and Gareth Bale both tested United's Spanish keeper David De Gea in the second half before Welbeck broke the deadlock on the hour with a firm header from Cleverley's right wing cross.
Welbeck was also heavily involved in the second goal as his back-heel wrong footed Tottenham's defence and Anderson slotted the ball into an empty net.
Rooney then grabbed his second of the season as he nodded home Ryan Giggs' cross from seven yards out.
Earlier on Monday United confirmed they have signed a four-year sponsorship with express and logistics company DHL.
The deal, worth $16.5 million a year according to British newspaper The Financial Times, will see the DHL logo appear on all United's training kit.
