Justin Bieber's iPhone is being searched for clues about his alleged involvement in an egg attack on his neighbor's house, a detective told CNN Thursday.
Sheriff's deputies took Bieber's personal smart phone when they used a felony search warrant to raid his mansion Tuesday morning, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Lt. David Thompson said.
The sheriff's technical crew, which is also examining security video seized in the search, are looking for any evidence of Bieber "bragging or making fun of" the incident, Thompson said.
Bieber should not worry about any nude photos or "drug talk" that may be among his text messages, he said. "It's just the egg matter."
"We're looking for anything that has to do with this particular incident," the detective said.
The security video system in Bieber's mansion could be the best witness to alleged egg attack. "It was extensive," Thompson said of the system. "I believe it was installed very well and covered all areas of Mr. Bieber's house. His security system was well operated." Deputies seized the computer that recorded the video, he said.
The alleged egg-tossing attack happened on the evening of Thursday, January 9, in the exclusive double-gated Oaks community of Calabasas, California. It is home to A-listers from entertainment and sports, including the mother and children of Michael Jackson.
Deputies at the Lost Hills Sheriff's Station, which serves an affluent section of Los Angeles County just east of Malibu, have become familiar with Bieber, 19, since he moved into a $6.4 million home two years ago.
Neighbors have dialed 911 several times to complain that the teenage multimillionaire was speeding down their residential streets in his high-performance cars. One neighbor accused Bieber of spitting in his face during a heated confrontation last March. Deputies have responded to complaints about loud parties at Bieber's place.
Except for warnings, nothing was done. The Los Angeles County District Attorney's office concluded that they couldn't prove the spitting or speeding cases in court, so they declined to prosecute.
Prosecutors also rejected a misdemeanor battery complaint from a photographer who accused Bieber of attacking him in the parking lot of a Calabasas shopping center as he was taking photos of Bieber and his then-girlfriend, Selena Gomez, in May 2012.
"We didn't do this search warrant to send a message," Thompson said Tuesday. "That's not what we do, but we hope maybe that understanding the gravity of this will change some of the behavior."
If detectives find evidence that Justin Bieber attacked his neighbor with eggs, they will present their findings to the district attorney for possible prosecution. This could happen in a few days or weeks, Thompson said.
The estimated $20,000 in damage to the neighbor's house would make it felony vandalism, which could carry prison time.
Lil Za's lament
Bieber house guest Lil Za -- a 20-year-old rapper whose real name is Xavier Smith -- is steaming over the media attention and legal troubles that followed his abrupt awakening Tuesday morning.
Deputies found suspected illegal drugs "in plain view" of Lil Za when they entered his bedroom in Bieber's home, Thompson said. He was arrested on a felony drug charge. To make his bad day worse, he was also charged with felony vandalism after allegedly busting the telephone in the jail while he was waiting to be bailed out.
Za tweeted this Thursday: "Honestly, the media is making me someone I'm not. But only those in my shoes can relate. ... These ppl get paid to make you look bad. Some stuff I've done has been wrong yes. but look at the position I'm in and the color of my skin. Cocaine? Really? All this time I was home in tx nobody gave a f--k about what Za is doing ..soon as he gets to La he's all over the news."
Thompson initially said the Texas native was found with cocaine, but later said the drugs were suspected to be Ecstasy -- aka Molly -- and Xanax.
