Jim Carrey's "Kick-Ass 2" co-stars may accept his decision not to support their film because of its intense violence, but that's not to say they agree with him.
Returning stars Aaron Taylor-Johnson, Chloë Grace Moretz and Christopher Mintz-Plasse, who were all in 2010's "Kick-Ass," told CNN that they view the story of everyday citizens who create superhero alter egos to fight crime as a form of escapism rather than an encouragement to behave the same way.
"Here's the thing: you know, it's a movie," said Moretz, 16. "I think if you are the type of person who's going to be affected by a movie, you shouldn't go see anything. You shouldn't go see a princess movie because then you're going to think you're a princess! ... I make movies for fun. And I think movies are for people to escape and to see stuff that is completely unrealistic."
Like its predecessor, the sequel's adapted from the graphic novels by Mark Millar, who's said that while his work lives up to its title, it's meant to be pure entertainment.
For Carrey, though, the debate is a matter of conscience.
"I did Kickass a month b4 Sandy Hook and now in all good conscience I cannot support that level of violence," he tweeted in June. "(M)y apologies to others involve with the film. I am not ashamed of it but recent events have caused a change in my heart."
"I think with all the tragedies that happened (in the past) year with the movie theater shooting, and Sandy Hook, and all that stuff ... he had to step back and he's like, 'I can't promote this movie, it's not in my heart.' And I respect that opinion," Mintz-Plasse told CNN of Carrey's announcement.
"I see movies as a kind of escape to get away from the real world for a couple hours. But I don't know what kind of people are out there. Like chemically imbalanced in their minds, you know, what they think, what inspires them."
Portraying a teen character named Hit-Girl, Moretz said she always thinks about how her job can impact society, but the answer to her is a separation of fact from fiction.
"I'm not playing myself, you know? And as Chloe, I would never in a million years do it, and I know that difference," Moretz said. "Even when I was 11, I knew that difference."
The reality, said Taylor-Johnson, who plays the titular Kick-Ass, is that moviegoers buying tickets for an R-rated film are going to have certain expectations -- even from Carrey's new character, Col. Stars and Stripes.
"Jim brings such a fantastic element to this movie. The same kind of mad kookiness that (Nicolas) Cage did in the first ('Kick-Ass')," Taylor-Johnson said. "That's kind of what 'Kick-Ass' is, it's so off the wall. But the violence is all comic book violence, and it's a fictional piece. I think that's what people are expecting to see -- it's an R-rated movie."
For the fans who are anticipating the same tone as the first film, Taylor-Johnson promises they've kept that level of darkness in tact.
"At the end of the day, it's entertainment," he said. "This is even darker. ... I think there's so much packed in that they're not going to come out going, 'Aw, I wish I saw her do this or do that.' They're going to be like, 'Oh my God,' what?!' Just processing it all is going to take a couple days."
CNN's Jane Caffrey contributed to this report.
