Want to make the ultimate superyacht entrance? Why not go by submarine through "James Bond-style" doors? Or if you'd prefer, take a helicopter ride then keep it stowed securely away in your very own on-board hangar.
Sounds far-fetched? Not at all. These feats are all possibilities on the PJ World yacht. The 82-meter vessel, with a price tag of more than €110million ($150m), is currently being built in Norway.
Designed in conjunction with Rolls Royce and boat makers Palmer Johnson, the ice class superyacht aims to be the ultimate luxury home on water.
"This is a moving house," says the Director of Palmer Johnson Europe, Russell Morris. "But with this home, if you don't like the neighbors, you can just sail away."
Unlike submarines on other superyachts, passengers can access their six-man vessel via an internal docking station. "It has a James Bond door that opens to the water," explains Morris. "Then once in the submarine you can explore deep water."
The futuristic entrance shares the limelight with a helicopter hangar that can be compared to the Batmobile's garage.
The hangar is accessed through opening hatches on the deck and an hydraulic lift.
The hangar, which also comes equipped with a re-fueling system, means that the helicopter is protected from the elements and can stay on-board while the PJ World yacht explores.
This is a handy feature considering the vessel is capable of sailing in all kinds of water from the Mediterranean to the Antarctic.
Keeping in mind the boat's ability to sail in waters across the globe, security has also been made a priority, the manufacturers say.
Water cannons and thermal imagery systems are in place in a bid to defend against potential pirate attacks.
PJ World is more than a year into construction, with building expected to be complete in around 18 months time.
Makers hope the yacht will be a keen sailor's mega mansion on water, with room for offices kitted out with the latest in satellite technology and a classroom for the children.
The owner's apartment covers three decks and there's a fourth deck for guests. In the public area there's a piano salon, a cinema, a beauty salon, a fitness center and a private swimming pool.
While luxury has been at the forefront of the minds of her makers, PJ World has been designed with an environmentally-friendly focus. "We've used the latest technology to make it as green as possible," says Morris.
The hull's shape and the medium speed diesel engine means the yacht produces low emissions.
She also has a dynamic positioning system so that PJ World can avoid anchoring in environmentally sensitive areas.
