NEW YORK (CNN)  -- He says it's true. She says it's not.
Former New Jersey Gov. Jim McGreevey and his wife, Dina Matos McGreevey, in 2004.
Former New Jersey Gov. Jim McGreevey says he and his wife, Dina Matos McGreevey, used to engage in sexual relations with his ex-aide and driver, Teddy Pedersen.
Dina Matos McGreevey has denied the allegation.
The New York Post and New Jersey's Star Ledger reported online Sunday that Pedersen said he had sexual relations with the McGreeveys in the late 1990s during the couple's courtship, and after the McGreeveys' marriage in 2000.
In the article, Pedersen describes trysts during which he and Jim McGreevey would both have sex with Dina Matos McGreevey, but says that, in his opinion, "me being part of their sexual relationship enhanced it for both of them."
Pedersen described regularly sharing a hotel room with the McGreeveys during out-of-town business trips.
In a statement issued Monday, Dina Matos McGreevey acknowledged that Pedersen had long had a "close relationship" with her former husband, but called his sexual claims "completely false."
"This all has to do with the publicity I have received since [New York] Gov. [Eliot] Spitzer resigned," her statement said, alluding to her recent New York Times op-ed piece on Silda Wall Spitzer and her recent discussion of betrayed political wives on CNN's "Larry King Live."
"Jim has enlisted one of his cronies in trying to distinguish that situation from his own, and to discredit me in the media," she said.
In August 2004, she stood silently beside her husband while he publicly declared himself "a gay American," admitted to having an office-compromising affair with another man -- later identified as a staff member -- and announced his intention to resign.
They are in the process of divorcing.
Jim McGreevey Monday confirmed Pedersen's claims.
"This happened, this happened in the past, and now, we need to move on with our lives," the former governor said in a written statement. "For all our sakes, particularly our daughter, we need to close this chapter and look toward the future."
The statement went on to say he had removed references to the incidents Pedersen describes from an early draft of his book.
"I still hope Dina and I can resolve our issues privately," it concluded.
After Dina Matos McGreevey issued her refutation, Pedersen stood by his story, telling the New York Post, "Dina is still in denial. It's time for her to face the truth." E-mail to a friend
