Indian cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar was again denied the chance to secure a record 100th international century on Friday as Australia won the second Test in Sydney by an innings and 68 runs to take an unassailable 2-0 lead in the four-match series.
Tendulkar is international cricket's record run scorer in both the five-day and limited overs formats but has been stranded on 99 centuries since March last year.
The 38-year-old batsman made 73 in the first innings of India's 122-run defeat in Melbourne, and this time the "Little Master" fell for 80 after being caught by Michael Hussey off the part-time bowling of Australia captain Michael Clarke.
Having started the penultimate day on 112-4, 354 runs behind Australia's 659-4 declared, the tourists were dismissed for 400 to end any hopes of a first series win on the continent.
Clarke's triple ton squeezes India
It was another frustrating dismissal for Tendulkar, who fell agonizingly short against the West Indies in his home city Mumbai in November when he was out for 94.
His last century came against South Africa at the 50-over World Cup when he reached 111.
Tendulkar's wicket was all the more sweet for man of the match Clarke, whose unbeaten 329 with the bat put Australia in control of the match.
"It's a very nice wicket to have, that's for sure," Clarke told reporters. "To be able to get such a great player out is a very handy wicket, so I was stoked with that.
"Sachin's been such a great player for so long, everyone goes through that period. It's nice that he's not made his 100th hundred in this series, but there's a long way to go. Never write off great players. As a team we have the greatest respect for him."
Resuming on eight, Tendulkar quickly reached 50 off 89 balls -- including seven fours -- and went to the lunch break on 70, before being caught at slip from Clarke's gentle left-arm off-spin.
Opening batsman Gautam Gambhir earlier fell for 83, while VVS Laxman added 103 with Tendulkar before becoming the fifth man to depart for 66.
Laxman and captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni (2) both went to fast bowler Ben Hilfenhaus, who completed a five-wicket haul when he dismissed Ravi Ashwin for 62 to end the innings.
"We have lost the chance of winning the series, but with two more Test matches to go we can level the series so that's what we're looking to do," said Dhoni, whose team made a disappointing 191 in the first innings.
"It is a bit of a worry but the good thing is in the second innings we saw the batsmen score runs. What we have seen in the last couple of Test matches is everybody has scored at least a 50 which gives us an indication that we need to convert those fifties into big innings and put runs on the board."
Hilfenhaus ended the Sydney match with figures of 8-157, but Australia's celebrations were tempered by the news that promising young fast bowler James Pattinson will miss the final two clashes of the series due to a foot injury.
The 21-year-old played a major role in Australia's victory, taking four wickets in the first innings and one in the second, and has an impressive haul of 25 wickets in his first four Test matches.
Meanwhile, South Africa clinched a long-awaited 2-1 series victory at home to Sri Lanka after winning the third Test in Cape Town by 10 wickets on Friday.
The tourists reached 342 in their second innings after a battling 115 not out by Thilan Samaraweera, which meant the Proteas needed just two runs for victory.
Sri Lanka resumed on day four at 138-4 with Samaraweera on 19, and raised hopes of setting a decent target as he took his partnership with Angelo Mathews to 142.
But Vernon Philander trapped all-rounder Mathews leg before wicket for 63, and the fast bowler then claimed his third wicket as young wicketkeeper Dinesh Chandimal went for one.
Spinner Imran Tahir and all-rounder Jaques Kallis mopped up the tail to also finish with three wickets each as South Africa won a series at home for the first time since 2008.
