French league leaders Paris St Germain have confirmed the appointment of Italian Carlo Ancelotti as their new coach on a two-and-a-half year contract as a replacement for Antoine Kombouare, who left the club earlier on Friday.
Ancelotti has been out of work since being sacked by Chelsea in May -- despite leading the London club to the English Premier League and FA Cup double in 2010.
He replaces former PSG player Kombouare who, despite leading the club to the top of the Ligue One table, has been sacrificed by PSG's mega-rich Qatari owners who were keen for a bigger name to take over as coach.
Out with the old and in with the new in 2012
The 52-year-old Ancelotti, who twice won the Champions League while in charge of AC Milan, is reported to be the highest-paid coach in French football history and his first match in charge will be a friendly against Milan in Dubai on January 4.
Ancelotti told a news conference: "I am delighted to be here as coach of Paris Saint-Germain and I think I can do a great job to help PSG become a big club in Europe.
"The club has everything to succeed and has enormous ambition. I will do my best to learn French in the best possible way, although I'd rather continue to speak in Italian for the moment," continued Ancelotti -- who also confirmed that former French international Claude Makelele will be his assistant at the club.
Kombouare, 48, issued a statement on his departure, saying: "I thank everybody who offered me support over these last few days.
"I leave Paris Saint-Germain with a sense of unfinished business but with the feeling of having given everything for the club."
Ancelotti's appointment has increased speculation that David Beckham, who played for both Ancelotti, and PSG's sporting director Leonardo, at AC Milan, could be the next big name arrival in the French capital.
However, Beckham's agents released a statement saying: "There is no agreement with PSG at this time, an offer does not make a contract, we continue to hold negotiations with a number of clubs."
