Indian pair Achanta Sharath Kamal and Subhajit Saha added another Commonwealth Games gold to the host nation's collection on Wednesday, beating Singapore in the men's doubles table tennis final.
The duo got off to a sluggish start at the Yamuna Sports Complex, losing the first game to Gao Ning and Yang Zi.
In front a passionate crowd, the home pair managed to battle back, eventually coming out on top 3-2 in the best of five contest.
"This is the first time we have won the gold in men's doubles, so it's certainly historic," Sharath told the official Commonwealth Games website. "Personally, this has given me more satisfaction than my singles performance at Delhi 2010."
"We decided to adopt an aggressive strategy and Sharath came back really strong after his semifinal defeat in singles. We could not have expected anything better than this," Saha added.
In the pool, English diver Tom Daley won his second gold medal in two days, adding the 10 meter platform title to the synchronized diving crown he had already claimed in Delhi.
Daley had to battle with Australia's Matthew Mitcham throughout the competition, but the 16-year-old held his nerve to record perfect tens across the board in his third dive and beat the Olympic champion by 27.20 points.
Elsewhere at the games, Australia won a thrilling women's hockey final, clinching the gold medal after a penalty shoot-out victory against New Zealand.
Australia led twice in the match, with New Zealand fighting back on each occasion before Jessica Arrold converted the winning penalty for the Hockeyroos.
In the boxing ring, Manju Wanniarachchi won Sri Lanka's first gold in the sport for 72 years by defeating Sean McGoldrick, of Wales, in the Bantamweight class.
It was also a landmark day for Northern Ireland, who claimed their first boxing medals for 16 years as three of their men won title fights.
The triumphant trio of Paddy Barnes, Paddy Gallagher and Eamonn O'Kane ensured their country finished the games top of the boxing medals table.
On the cycling track, Scotland's David Millar and Canada's Tara Alice Whitten took the men's and women's gold medals respectively for the individual time trial.
In shooting, the men's skeet singles title was won by England's Richard Brickell after he beat defending champion Georgios Achilleos from Cyprus in a shoot-off.
