A Florida judge dismissed a batch of potential jurors in the Casey Anthony murder trial Tuesday because several members had discussed the case in the jury room.
The ruling from Orange County Superior Court Chief Judge Belvin Perry Jr. came in the second day of jury selection in the trial of Anthony, 25, who is charged with capital murder in the death of her 2-year-old daughter, Caylee.
Perry asked the individuals whether another potential juror talked or asked about the case, and whether it went beyond just a reference to the case. At least a dozen raised their hand when asked if someone had spoken to them about Casey Anthony.
"Through no fault of your own I think it's best I let you go and return back to the central jury room," said Perry, who asked for more jury candidates Wednesday.
The judge and lawyers are questioning potential jurors in groups of 50. They need 12 jurors and eight alternates.
Perry tied the jury panel problem to a person, listed as a witness in the case, who had also been summoned for jury duty. That individual spoke with others in the jury room, the judge said.
Concerns over Anthony receiving a fair trial led to the jury selection proceedings being moved to the Clearwater, Florida, courthouse, about 100 miles southwest of Orlando. Caylee's grandmother first reported her missing in Orlando in 2008, weeks after the girl was last seen, and five months before her body was found.
Authorities moved the proceedings to Clearwater hoping to draw from a jury pool that was less likely to have seen and been influenced by the intense media coverage surrounding the case.
Once jury selection is complete, the jurors will be transported to Orlando's Orange County for the trial, which is now scheduled to start May 17.
Perry and lawyers have been asking jurors about possible hardships in hearing the capital case.
"Our system of justice depends on people like you willing to serve," the judge said Monday. "You are being asked to perform one of the highest duties of citizenship."
Many excused jurors cited financial hardship -- saying they or their family would suffer if they couldn't work for two months. Others said they had to take care of loved ones.
On a lighter note, a woman claimed hardship Tuesday due to her concern about a teen son who lives at home and worries about another son, 29, possibly throwing parties while she is on duty.
Jurors also will be asked, one by one, for their take on the death penalty, which Casey Anthony would be eligible for if convicted on the murder charge.
Lastly, the jurors will be quizzed on their knowledge of the case and other positions -- including if they have an opinion, prior to the trial, on Anthony's guilt or innocence. Throughout the selection process, Perry can weigh arguments from members of Anthony's legal team and state prosecutors and decide to exclude certain men and women from the jury pool.
Casey Anthony also faces six other charges, including aggravated child abuse, aggravated manslaughter of a child and misleading law enforcement.
In Session's Jean Casarez and Michael Christian contributed to this report.
