Florida authorities were searching Sunday for a 33-year-old man after his wife and five children were found dead in their Naples home.
Mesac Damas pleaded no contest to the misdemeanor battery against Guerline Damas in June.
The bodies of Guerline Damas, 32; Michzach, 9; Marven, 6; Maven, 5; Megan, 3; and Morgan, 11 months, were discovered Saturday, Rambosk said.
Authorities have been unable to locate Mesac Damas, who possibly left the country Friday morning and may be in Haiti, Capt. Chris Roberts of the Collier County sheriff's department said Sunday at a news conference.
"We don't see at this point any indication of an individual out in the neighborhoods committing additional crimes or homicides, but certainly we will look at every opportunity," Collier County Sheriff Kevin Rambosk said at an earlier news conference.
There had been a "handful" of domestic disturbance calls to police since 2000 involving the Damas couple, with the latest resulting in the arrest of Mesac Damas in January, Roberts said. Mesac Damas pleaded no contest to the misdemeanor battery against Guerline Damas in June, and Roberts said he does not think Mesac Damas served any jail time for the crime.
"We are still talking to people that knew the family and obviously the ultimate information we need is not so much what happened in the past but what happened when these people died," Roberts said.
The six bodies were found Saturday at about 6:30 p.m., a day after police had visited the home to check on the family, Roberts said.  Watch why authorities are looking for Damas »
When a family member had not heard from a resident at the home, the family member asked authorities on Friday to do a welfare check on the house, Roberts said. Responding police knocked on the door but got no answer, he said, but officers saw no indications to arouse their suspicions.
The following morning, the family member became more concerned and filed a missing persons report, which authorities took, Rambosk said.
Later, authorities requested from property management a key to the house and an authorization to enter.
"When we did, we found the bodies of the individuals," he said.
"I can tell you that in no uncertain terms this is the most horrific and violent event this community has ever experienced. This is the worst of the worst."
He would not release the manner of death.
Rambosk said authorities had recovered Mesac Damas' vehicle at Miami International Airport, and they believe that he left on a flight to Haiti on Friday.
Roberts said collecting and processing evidence can take "several days, if not weeks."
