(CNN Student News) -- January 17, 2014
On the last day of the school week, we're reporting on a presidential push concerning college attendance. We also remember the "miracle on the Hudson," and we discuss the driving force behind auto shows. And when a twin gives up her spot on the U.S. Olympic team so that her sister can go, we find a great Character Study.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What messages do you think an audience gets from media coverage of a presidential summit?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. Ariel Sharon was a former prime minister and military leader of what country?
2. What Major League Baseball player is appealing the longest suspension in his sport's history for alleged doping?
3. What's the term used to explain presidential appointments that are made when the Senate is not in session?
4. What unit of measurement is often used to describe the level of water or air pollution?
5. What country recently expelled American journalist David Satter?
6. In what country would you find the city of Bangkok, where thousands recently protested their nation's government?
7. Where was a U.S. Consulate attacked by terrorists on September 11, 2012?
8. What term refers to ISPs (internet service providers) not "discriminating" against different kinds of Internet content?
9. What tech company paid $3 billion for Nest, which makes home thermostats and smoke detectors?
10. In what New York river did a U.S. Airways passenger jet make a "miracle" landing five years ago?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
