Zsa Zsa Gabor's Bel Air mansion, which offers an expansive -- and expensive -- view of Los Angeles, officially hits the real estate market for sale Tuesday, according to the realtor who is listing the property.
The Hollywood Regency-style mansion, built in 1955, carries a listing price of $15 million, Beverly Hills real estate agent Christophe Choo said Monday. It will be officially posted on the multiple listing service Tuesday, Choo said.
Gabor's husband, Prince Frederic von Anhalt, announced several months ago that he wanted to sell the house for $28 million because of the high cost of caring for his 94-year-old wife, who has been in poor health for years.
The 6,400-square-foot house sits on more than an acre of prime land on a promontory on exclusive Bel Air Road. Music producer Quincy Jones lives next door.
Gabor moved into the home about 35 years ago, about 10 years before she married von Anhalt, who is her ninth husband.
At least one neighbor may be glad to see the couple move. Von Anhalt, 67, placed two porcelain toilets on his lawn facing the home of an adjacent property owner with whom he had a feud, the prince said in a CNN interview last year.
The upper terrace offers a commanding view of downtown Los Angeles, Santa Monica, the ocean and Catalina Island.
Gabor has suffered major health problems in the last year, including hip replacement surgery and a leg amputation. She has been unable to walk since a 2002 car accident.
Her husband, when he first disclosed his intention to sell the home, said that he and his wife needed to pare down expenses. Maintaining the large house and paying for its staff, including nurses for his wife, cost about $35,000 a month, he said.
He would like to move with his wife into a condo along Wilshire Boulevard in West Los Angeles, closer to Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, where Gabor has spent much of her time in the past year, he said.
Gabor's only child, Francesca Hilton, has questioned her stepfather's legal right to put the house on the market. The couple signed a prenuptial agreement before their wedding 25 years ago giving him no ownership in the property, Hilton said.
Hilton, who has not been allowed by von Anhalt to see her mother in several months, said Gabor would never want to leave her house for a condo.
The Hungarian-born actress, the second of the three celebrated Gabor sisters, is famous for her many marriages and strong personality as well as her acting prowess.
Her more prominent films include John Huston's Toulouse-Lautrec biopic, "Moulin Rouge," in 1952, "The Story of Three Loves" in 1953, "The Girl in the Kremlin" in 1957 and Orson Welles' 1958 cult classic, "Touch of Evil."
