Three of Michael Jackson's brothers settled a lawsuit Monday that they filed last week against a company they alleged "duped" them in a deal to sell replicas of jackets worn by the pop icon.
The endorsement of the "Thriller" and "Beat It" jackets was the first involving Michael Jackson's oldest son, Prince, who posed for pictures with his uncles as they autographed the limited-edition jackets last month.
"Marlon, Tito and I created this project as a tribute to our brother Michael and his fans worldwide, and we are very happy that there has been a resolution," Jackie Jackson said Monday. The brothers' announcement didn't specify the terms of the settlement.
The brothers filed a lawsuit Tuesday alleging the jacket's marketer bounced a check to them for travel expenses and had failed to pay each of the three brothers the $100,000 each for signing the 1,000 leather jackets.
"We spent the last week making sure that everyone is in agreement with this settlement," Eric Farber, the attorney for the Jackson brothers, said in announcing the settlement. The Jacksons are looking forward to "a successful partnership" in the future with the company, he said.
Steeve Bohbot, owner of Connected Internationals Sales, said he was "relieved to clear up this misunderstanding." "We have such an immense respect for the Jackson brothers and Michael's legacy and are pleased to have resolved this situation," he said.
The Jackson brothers, who recently reunited onstage for a series of concerts, gathered at West Hollywood's Bar Marmont on October 29 to sign the jackets. Prince Jackson, who has previously stayed away from commercial endorsements, joined them at the event, but he did not autograph the jackets.
Prince Jackson was not involved in the lawsuit since he was not part of the marketing agreement. It was not disclosed how much he was to be paid to attend and pose with the jackets.
Michael Jackson debuted the red "Beat It" and red and black "Thriller" jackets, designed by Marc Laurent, in 1983. The Jackson brothers signed 500 of each jacket, which are still on sale for $2,350.
