Jenn Sterger, the woman to whom pro football quarterback Brett Favre allegedly sent sexually explicit text messages and pictures, has hired a law firm to represent her, as the National Football League carries out its investigation into the allegations, her manager and the lawyer told CNN Wednesday.
"After much deliberation, LaRusso & Conway has been retained to represent Jenn Sterger and to advise her throughout the process," said Phil Reese, Sterger's manager and CEO of the firm Player Relations/Public Relations. "Joseph Conway will serve as lead counsel in this matter."
Reese said the Long Island-based firm was retained Tuesday. Conway confirmed the arrangement.
The NFL initiated an investigation into Favre's actions after the sports website Deadspin.com reported in August that the athlete sent voice messages, texts and pictures of his penis to Sterger in 2008, when he was the Jets' quarterback and she was working for the team as a sideline personality and host.
Deadspin reported Wednesday that Milton E. Ahlerich, a vice president in the league's security department, asked Deadspin Editor A.J. Daulerio -- who wrote the Favre stories -- to meet "to determine the possibility of you sharing any and all details you and your media organization may have on this matter."
Daulerio said in a website posting that he told Ahlerich he would "be willing to cooperate with the NFL's thorough investigation into Brett Favre's sexting habits," but would not divulge his source for the original story.
"I told Mr. Ahlerich that any and all information we have to offer is available on the site and that I'm unwilling to give anything more than that right now. To this, he responded that he's read over what has been on the site many, many times, meaning this poor man ... has been looking at penis pictures for close to a week. Pity him."
Daulerio said Ahlerich also told him he met Tuesday with Favre and that the meeting was "even-handed" and that the parties involved were "well-represented."
Daulerio has acknowledged that third-party sources were paid for the story about Sterger and that he could not say definitively that the messages or photos the site posted came from the 41-year-old quarterback.
Ahlerich did not immediately return a call seeking comment Wednesday.
Favre has not publicly addressed the investigation. Asked Wednesday why he had not denied the stories, he told a reporter, "That's something that's within the league and I just have to leave it at that."
Sterger, 26, is co-host of "The Daily Line," a sports program on Versus, a sports cable television channel.
The Jets have given National Football League officials all the information they have regarding the incident, a team spokesman said last week.
Jesse Derris, a spokesman for the Jets, told HLN's "Prime News" that the team has no role in the allegations against Favre, who played one season in New York and now plays for the Minnesota Vikings.
Favre, who has been married for 14 years, signed with the Minnesota Vikings in August 2009 after emerging from retirement for the second time in as many years.
Deadspin has also reported that a second woman has come forward to allege that she received other lewd messages from the quarterback and that a third woman, whom the site did not identify, also received similar messages.
The site reported the two women were massage therapists hired by the Jets, and identified them only by pseudonyms.
Derris said the therapists were hired for two days in the team's 2008 training camp and would not confirm whether they had any direct contact with Favre.
CNN could not independently confirm whether the voice in the recordings belongs to Favre, or whether he sent the notes.
Favre played most of his career with the Green Bay Packers, leading the team to a Super Bowl title in 1997. He was traded to the Jets after the 2007 season.
