WBA world heavyweight champion David Haye has branded his IBF, WBO and IBO counterpart Wladimir Klitschko a "robot" and said the Ukrainian will "malfunction" in their unification bout in Hamburg on Saturday.
Haye, 30, was talking at the final press conference ahead of the duo's highly-anticipated face-off, with tensions clearly running high between the two fighters.
"It's going to be fun to watch this big robot start malfunctioning," the London native told reporters.
The pair were due to get in the ring in 2009, before Haye was forced to withdraw with a back injury, and the Englishman said he is happy the fight did not take place two years ago because he is now in much better shape.
"I'm healthy, my speed is ridiculous, punch power is there, and I'm just in a really good place," he said.
"I'm happy the fight's happening now and didn't happen a couple of years ago because I am so much more of a better fighter now."
Klitschko acknowledged his opponent was in fine physical condition, but the 1996 Olympic gold medal winner said Haye will be the 50th knockout victim of his professional career and that the experience will make him "a better person."
"I will knock your butt out back into reality, which is good for your future life," said Klitschko.
"You're going to become a better person, a better man, with better behavior and you'll be on time."
The Semey-born boxer was referring to the fact that Haye was 30 minutes late for the press conference, and Klitschko went on to say: "He was late for half an hour today, we've all been waiting for you princess."
The tension rose further when Wladimir's brother Vitali, the WBC heavyweight champion, stood up and asked Haye whether he would be attending the post-fight press conference.
"Please, promise, in front of many journalists, that you're coming to the press conference after the fight?"
Haye responded: "I'm coming for you [Vitali] after the fight, make sure you're there."
Vitali famously faced a British fighter in 2003, when he lost to Lennox Lewis by technical knockout after the end of the sixth round.
Former world amateur championships silver medallist Haye has previously said he will retire before turning 31 in October, but "The Hayemaker" has also expressed a desire to defeat both Klitschko brothers before hanging up his gloves.
British cruiserweight Carl Thompson defeated Haye in their fight in 2004, his only career loss in 26 professional clashes.
Klitschko will be looking to avoid a fourth defeat of his pro career, having won 55 of his 58 bouts.
The fight will take place at the Imtech Arena, home of Bundesliga football club Hamburg, on Saturday.
