Venus Williams could not find the energy and inspiration which had seen her defeat sister Serena in the last four as she slipped to a straight sets defeat to Poland's Agnieszka Radwanska in the final of the Rogers Cup in Montreal Sunday.
Maybe the effort of three straight three-set matches took its tool, but the seven-time grand slam champion was rarely a factor as she lost 6-4 6-2 in 81 minutes at the hard court tournament.
"I am sorry. I fell a little short. I didn't have as much to give as I would have liked," Venus said.
She took the opening game of the match before Radwanska went on a run of four straight to take an early stranglehold. Williams broke back for 4-3, but the third seed rounded out the set 6-4.
The pair exchanged breaks at the start of the second, but Radwanska broke again in the fifth game and did not drop another to claim her 14th WTA career title.
The Wimbledon 2012 runner-up to Serena Wlliams was delighted by her victory and a check for $467,000 for the win. "Everything was working for me today," she said.
Consolation for Williams is that she will improve her current ranking of 26 after her fine run at the tournament and an earlier title in 2014.
Later Sunday, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga completed a triumphant week at the men's Rogers Cup in Toronto with a straight sets victory over Roger Federer.
The Frenchman had beaten world number one Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray on his way to the title match at the Masters 1000 tournament and Federer went the same way in a 7-5 7-6 victory.
The 13th seed had also gone into this match as the underdog, with Federer looking for a remarkable 300th win at this level.
But a single break after a pair of errors from Federer saw him wrap up the opener.
The second set went with service with Tsonga wrapping up the tiebreaker 7-3 to win his second Masters 1000 crown and to climb back into the top 10 of the world rankings.
Tsonga had not won a title in 18 months after struggling with injury and loss of form, but has returned to his best with a vengeance ahead of the U.S. Open later this month.
