(CNN Student News) -- November 11, 2013
This Veterans Day, CNN Student News explores the history surrounding the holiday and some patriotic stories associated with it. We also examine how a massive typhoon affected the Philippines, and we look at what could be ahead this week regarding a controversial U.S. health care law.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were to produce a video honoring veterans, what forms of media would you include? What elements do you think would have the most impact? Explain.
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. storm surge
2. health care plan
3. military veteran
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What was the impact of Typhoon Haiyan as described in today's program? What is this storm's predicted path?
2. Why has the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) been in the news lately? What did people in the report say about this law?
3. What did you learn about Veterans Day from today's program? What is the story behind the Country Music Awards' 2013 Song of the Year?
Discussion Questions:
1. When a major storm is approaching, what do you think influences people's decisions on whether to evacuate or stay at home?
2. What is your opinion of the controversies surrounding Obamacare? What were your thoughts on President Obama's apology regarding some effects of the law? Who do you think should be responsible for addressing the problems associated with the law? Explain.
3. If you could interview a veteran, what questions would you ask? How does your community commemorate Veterans Day? Can you think of other ways to honor military veterans? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Philippines; Vietnam
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
