U.S. President Barack Obama called Pakistan's president Sunday to express condolences over the airstrike that killed 24 soldiers near the Afghanistan border more than a week ago, the White House said in a statement.
"The president made clear that this regrettable incident was not a deliberate attack on Pakistan and reiterated the United States' strong commitment to a full investigation," the statement said. "The two presidents reaffirmed their commitment to the U.S.-Pakistan bilateral relationship, which is critical to the security of both nations, and they agreed to stay in close touch."
The conversation between Obama and Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari was the latest bid to address strained relations between the two nations after a NATO airstrike killed the Pakistani troops on November 26.
After the attack, Pakistani Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani told CNN that Pakistan was re-evaluating its relationship with the United States.
NATO later called the subsequent mass casualties caused by the strike "tragic (and) unintended." U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta have called the incident a "tragedy" and offered condolences, though Washington has not issued a formal apology.
The issue of U.S. and fellow NATO forces coming into Pakistan has been an especially sensitive topic in that country since May, when U.S. commandos killed then al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad without Pakistani leaders' consent
During an exclusive interview last week with CNN, Gilani said the country wants to maintain its relationship with the United States as long as there is mutual respect and respect for Pakistani sovereignty.
Asked directly if Pakistan is getting that respect, the prime minister said: "At the moment (it is) not."
"If I can't protect the sovereignty of my country, how can we say that this is mutual respect and mutual interest?" he asked rhetorically.
Pakistan has taken several steps aimed at NATO since the attack.
That includes an announcement Friday, by Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar, that NATO and International Security Assistance Force supplies could no longer be routed through Pakistan. The country has served a vital supply route for allied forces who have been fighting for more than a decade in neighboring Afghanistan.
