How many have you been to? And do you agree with the rankings?
Condé Nast Traveler announced the winners of its 26th annual Readers' Choice Awards yesterday.
As they do every year, this year's results introduce new categories, new hotels and re-ordered lists of the world's best destinations.
The magazine said this year's list was the most comprehensive ever, with 1.3 million votes cast for a whopping 16,000 properties around the world.
World's best cities
The "Top 25 Cities in the World" list had refreshingly surprising additions and rankings -- Paris came in at a lowly 22 while Bruges and Cape Town tied for 11th place.
Budapest and Florence tied for second, while the very top spot was seized by the colonial city of San Miguel de Allende in central Mexico, which took the crown from last year's favorite of Charleston, South Carolina (which was tied for fifth this year).
Italy snapped up five of the top 25 cities, while Spain managed to take three.
Despite its slide in the global rankings, Charleston was still voted the top city in the United States for the third year in a row, for its "sand, sun, history, good food and friendly people."
More categories
In the "Top 100 Hotels and Resorts in the World" category, La Residence in South Africa and Lodge at Kauri Cliffs in Matauri Bay, New Zealand tied for first place, while Virgin America was named the No. 1 airline in the United States. Singapore Airlines came in first for international airlines.
Here's a small selection of the rankings.
Top cities in the world
1. San Miguel de Allende, Mexico2.= Budapest, Hungary2.= Florence, Italy4. Salzburg, Austria5.= Charleston, South Carolina, United States5.= San Sebastián, Spain7. Vienna, Austria8. Rome9. Siena, Italy10. Québec City11.= Cape Town, South Africa11.= Bruges, Belgium13. Vancouver, Canada14. Kyoto, Japan15.= Prague, Czech Republic15.= Kraków, Poland17.= Victoria, Canada17.= Sydney17.= Santa Fe, New Mexico, United States20.= Seville, Spain20.= Beirut, Lebanon22.= Paris22.= Melbourne, Australia24.= Venice, Italy24.= Barcelona, Spain
Top cities in the United States
1. Charleston, South Carolina2. Sante Fe, New Mexico3. San Francisco4. Honolulu5. Chicago
Top hotels and resorts in the world
1.= Lodge at Kauri Cliffs in Maturi Bay, New Zealand1.= La Residence, Franschhoek, South Africa3.= Singita Sabi Sand, South Africa 3.= Bushmans Kloof Wilderness Reserve, South Africa5. Grand Hotel Timeo, Sicily
Top U.S. airlines
1. Virgin America2. Jetblue Airways3. Hawaiian Airlines4. Southwest Air Lines5. Alaska Airlines
Top international airlines
1. Singapore Airlines2. Emirates3. Virgin Atlantic4. Etihad Airways 5. Air New Zealand
What are you favorite cities, hotels and airlines? Did the Condé Nast Traveler readers get it right? Tell us below!
