British authorities told CNN Wednesday they are examining a home video that shows singer Amy Winehouse smoking something in a glass pipe minutes after she is heard saying she had just taken six tablets of the anti-anxiety drug Valium.
The cover of British tabloid The Sun shows a video still of Amy Winehouse smoking a glass pipe.
Scotland Yard said it had received the video from The Sun newspaper, which made it public Tuesday.
A Grammy-nominated singer, Winehouse's alleged battle with drugs have garnered constant headlines. Her hit song "Rehab" describes her reluctance to enter a rehabilitation center, which she did last summer.
The tabloid said the 19-minute video was shot Friday in Winehouse's East London home. The Sun posted an edited 2:12 portion of the video on its Web site. The Sun is Britain's best selling daily tabloid newspaper.
In the video posted online, Winehouse walks around her home in a dark tank top, talks to a friend on her cell phone, and talks to the person shooting the video.  Watch CNN's report on the video »
At one point, Winehouse says, "I just took about six Valium."
Sitting on her bed, she lights a glass pipe and inhales. It's not clear what's in the pipe.
Her personal representatives referred CNN to her record company.
Her UK label, Island Records, issued a statement saying, "We are deeply disappointed and upset by these latest revelations and are doing everything we can to offer Amy our full support in dealing with her problems."
In October, Winehouse and her husband were arrested at a Norwegian hotel for marijuana possession, and soon after fans booed her on stage as she slurred and stumbled her way through her songs.
In December, tabloids published pictures of Winehouse with a mystery white powder in her nose. She was also photographed wandering barefoot on a London street, wearing only jeans and a bra, and appearing disoriented.
Winehouse's husband, Blake Fielder-Civil, is currently behind bars in London on charges of perverting the course of justice following a bar fight.
Her parents have publicly expressed concern that their daughter is succumbing to the pressures of fame.
Winehouse received six nominations for next month's Grammy Awards, including record and song of the year for "Rehab" and best album for "Back to Black."  E-mail to a friend
