The parents of a Washington state woman who admitted making up a story about an assailant throwing caustic liquid in her face told reporters Friday that they don't know why their daughter inflicted her own wounds.
"She's obviously dealing with some deep internal, emotional and psychological problems that we had no knowledge of, and we hope that she'll get the help that she needs," said Nancy Neuwelt, mother of 28-year-old Bethany Storro. "She's got a long road ahead of her, but she's on the road, and we're going to walk it with her."
Joe and Nancy Neuwelt said there were no signs of trouble leading up to the August 30 incident, after which Storro originally told police she had been attacked by an African-American woman with an athletic build and slicked-back hair pulled into a pony tail.
On Thursday, Storro admitted her injuries were self-inflicted, Vancouver police said. The Neuwelts said they had no reason to doubt their daughter's story -- as "any good parents would" -- until Storro confessed on Thursday.
"Now she can begin to heal because the truth has been revealed," Nancy Neuwelt said. She decribed her daughter as very sorry for the pain she caused the city -- which is across the Oregon border from Portland --  and those close to her.
Police would not speculate on Storro's motives, only saying the incident did not occur as she described and that there were discrepancies in her account, including wearing sunglasses in the evening.
"She is very remorseful. In many ways it got bigger than she expected," police Cmdr. Marla Schuman said Thursday.
After the incident, Vancouver searched for an assailant. Police spent hundreds of hours on the case, and the community came together to offer donations for Storro's treatment. Joe Neuwelt said all money would be returned. He said he and his wife were "deeply sorry" that people had been duped.
Storro was released from an Oregon hospital September 5 after undergoing surgery for her injuries.
Prosecuters will decide whether or not to charge Storro, police said.
