The staffing search for a Hillary Clinton campaign manager is heating up, and a Clinton spokesman acknowledged  Thursday that the former secretary of state is "casting a wide net" when talking to different people about about a would-be presidential bid.
Clinton met with Guy Cecil, the outgoing head of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, on Wednesday in Washington, according to Politico, and has talked with Robby Mook, a former Clinton aide, about 2016.​ Both are seen as frontrunner for the top job in a Clinton campaign.
Although Clinton's spokesman said he wouldn't confirm or deny the meeting and conversations occurred, Nick Merrill acknowledged that Clinton is talking with a wide array of people about 2016.
"As she decides, she's casting a wide net and wants to hear from a variety of people on a range of specific topics, from policy ideas to what a successful campaign would look like,"  Merrill said in an email.
Democrats have repeatedly said that Clinton has yet to make up her mind, but according to people close to Clinton, there have long been four names in the campaign manager race: Cecil, Mook, Stephanie Schriock and Ace Smith.
Here is what you need to know about each.
Cecil:
Although Cecil, as executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, was at the helm when Democrats lost the Senate in 2014, he is close with the Clintons -- particularly Bill Clinton -- and worked as Hillary Clinton's national political and field director in 2008.
Cecil is an unpretentious figure and has won the trust of many on Capitol Hill. Earlier in his career he led the standard journeyman campaign life, working for campaigns in Arkansas, North Carolina and Colorado (where he led Sen. Michael Bennet's dark-horse win in 2010).
Cecil has been hesitant to talk about Clinton publicly as she considers a 2016 run and did not respond to an email for this story.
Mook:
The then 33-year-old political operative was seen as a man on the rise when he steered Gov. Terry McAuliffe to victory in Virginia in 2013 and is regularly mentioned by people close to Clinton as a smart choice for campaign manager.
Before working for McAuliffe, Mook was the head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and in 2008 steered the Clinton presidential campaign to wins in Nevada, Ohio and Indiana. Mook, who has a loyal following in his own Democratic circle, started his political career working for then Gov. Howard Dean in Vermont.
Like Cecil, Mook has been hesitant to comment publicly on Clinton's 2016 bid.
He did, however, make the most interesting splash of any of the possible campaign managers when emails he sent to a group of supporters were leaked to ABC. In the emails, which were sent to a group called the "Mook Mafia," the operative urged his supporters to "smite Republicans mafia-style."
Schriock:
Schriock currently has what she calls "one of the very best jobs in American politics right now" and it wouldn't be a stretch to say Hillary Clinton probably agrees.
As head of Emily's List, Schriock's goal is to help elect pro-choice, Democratic women across the country -- something Clinton regularly talks about on the stump. Schriock, the often-on-message campaign veteran, started her career as Dean's 2004 finance director, where she tapped into a new revenue stream -- the internet -- to raise money. She then went on to lead high profile Senate campaigns, including Jon Tester's in Montana and Al Franken's in Minnesota, to wins.
Schriock briefed the press at last month's Ready for Hillary strategy session, where she flatly said she was "not going to talk about" a possible role in the Clinton campaign.
"I am not going to talk about any conversation I may or may not be having with any candidate who may or may not be running for office," she said.
Smith:
Smith, a California based consultant with deep ties to the Clinton, would be the dark horse in this field of four.
While Smith led Hillary Clinton's campaign to 2008 wins in California, Texas and North Carolina, it is the list of other Democrats he has worked for that is impressive: Richard Daley, Paul Simon, Ann Richards, Dianne Feinstein, Dick Gephardt and Howard Dean, to name a few.
People close to Clinton say that Smith would be a good, outside-the-beltway choice for campaign manager. Although he had deep ties to Washington -- through the people he has worked for -- Smith is based in California and has focused on the state in the last few years.
And it seems like Smith is interested.
"Anything Hillary Clinton asks me to do, I will do," Smith told the San Francisco Chronicle in November. "I'm a huge charter member of the Hillary Clinton fan club."
