Fox News contributor and Republican as of 2012, black actress Stacey Dash proves she really wasn't acting in the movie "Clueless." Appearing on Fox News' "Hannity" show, Dash called all black people in Louisiana government freeloaders who don't work.
Sean Hannity asked Dash: "Has voting with Obama 95% of the time and Obamacare, has that helped the minority community in Louisiana?"
"No, not at all. It still keeps them stuck. They're getting money for free. They feel worthless. They're uneducated. I mean, as long as you are that way, they can keep you under their control ..."
"They have a plantation mentality," Dash said. "As long as they give you this much money, you'll stay right there. You don't need to know too much because if you do, you might start thinking for yourself."
I think Stacey Dash needs to get out more, perhaps visit Louisiana and the rest of America and see that all blacks, myself included, certainly don't feel "worthless" under President Barack Obama's administration.
Whether Democratic or Republican, scores of black people -- Oprah Winfrey, Allen West, Condoleezza Rice, Ben Carson, Shelby Steele, Bill Cosby, Robin Roberts, and many many others -- are highly educated, gainfully employed, paying their bills and frankly doing quite well. Dash is one of them.
Many black people may want Obama to provide more productive policies, but to suggest, as Dash does, that blacks are largely "uneducated" and "getting money for free" is a racist narrative that conservatives need to stop perpetuating. That kind of talk is an offensive nonstarter in getting blacks to consider voting Republican. So is the often repeated meme by some black conservatives that blacks "have a plantation mentality."
Whether you're white or black, it's never cool to invoke metaphors of slavery, which was a gruesome, painful institution protected by Democrats in America that went on way too long. Conservatives should remind Americans of the history of slavery and how the Democratic Party perpetuates policies of paternalism that don't benefit blacks.
The "Hannity" segment was about the Louisiana Senate race between Democratic incumbent Sen. Mary Landrieu and Republicans Bill Cassidy and Rob Maness. Dash and other guests discussed how blacks in Louisiana have voted for Landrieu since electing her in 1997 but have not benefited from it.
Black Republican Deroy Murdock gave a much more reasoned commentary on why black people need to reconsider their blind allegiance to Democrats. Referring to an ad produced by black Republican Louisiana State Sen. Elbert Guillory focusing on Landrieu's record with blacks, Murdock said:
"I think state Sen. Guillory has done a tremendous job and service, by asking in this ad a very basic question: What have the Democrats done for us lately? Black folks show up and vote 95% for Obama, 95% for Landrieu and ...what do you get? Eighteen years of poverty under Mary Landrieu in Louisiana."
Murdock said that under Obama's presidency, black poverty and dependence on food stamps has increased and home ownership has declined. Fact-based comments such as Murdock's raise eyebrows and invite blacks voting for the Democratic Party to consider voting for Republicans.
Dash's comments are insulting and give blacks another reason to tune out the GOP and not take our party seriously.
