Alberto Contador wrapped up his second Giro d'Italia victory -- and sixth grand tour success -- after the 21st and final stage time-trial in Milan, won by Briton David Millar.
Millar completed the 26km stage in 30 minutes and 13 seconds, with Contador taking third place, 36 seconds behind.
That meant the 28-year-old Spaniard finished a comfortable six minutes and 10 seconds clear of Italian Michele Scarponi in the overall classification with another Italian, Tour of Spain champion Vincenzo Nibali, back in third place a further 46 seconds behind.
Team Leopard rider Weylandt dies in Giro d'Italia crash
Saxo Bank rider Contador, who also has three Tour de France titles and one Tour of Spain success to his name, proved the dominant rider in the race after taking the leader's pink jersey on the ninth stage to Mount Etna.
He will now seek to become the first rider since Marco Pantani in 1998 to win the Giro and Tour de France in the same year.
Contador won the Tour in 2007, 2009 and last year and was only prevented from racing in 2008 because his then team, Astana, were denied a start place by organizers due to doping infringements.
However, a question mark still hangs over last year's Tour victory after Contador tested positive for a tiny amount of the banned muscle-building substance clenbuterol during last July's race.
The Spanish Cycling Federation (RFEC) acquitted Contador of any wrong-doing, rescinding an initial decision to give him a one-year ban after accepting the rider's claim that he had unknowingly eaten drug-contaminated meat and was therefore not negligent.
But the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) and cycling's governing body (UCI) have appealed against the RFEC decision to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).
The case concerning Contador was due to be heard by CAS from June 6-8 in order to have the decision before the start of this year's Tour de France on July 2 -- but CAS announced last week they had postponed the hearing to allow further preparation by all parties.
