(Mashable)  -- If event registration site Eventbrite's experience is any indication, social media marketers looking for monetary returns on their efforts might get more value from Facebook than Twitter.
The company announced Wednesday that an average tweet about an event drove 80 cents in ticket sales during the past six months, whereas an average Facebook Like drove $1.34.
The study, which used in-house social analytics tools to track ticket sales on the site, was a continuation of a similar analysis the company released in October after analyzing data from a 12-week period.
That study also indicated Facebook drove more sales for Eventbrite than Twitter, although the difference between the two networks' sales per post was greater at that point than throughout the entire six-month period (the "value" of tweets increased).
In addition to each individual Facebook Like driving more sales than an individual tweet, the study also revealed cumulative activity on Facebook was greater than activity on Twitter for Eventbrite. People shared Eventbrite events on Facebook almost four times as often as they did on Twitter. The company attributes this disparity to Facebook's wider reach and greater emphasis on real-world ties.
It's important to note that only a very small percentage of site visitors shared event pages on either network. Just 1% of people who landed on an event page shared it with their friends; 10% of people who had purchased a ticket did the same.
Obviously people are more likely to share events if they are attending. Their friends, according to Eventbrite's data, are also more likely to buy tickets to an event shared on Facebook by a ticket holder than one shared by an uncommitted friend.
But whether these trends, or any of Eventbrite's findings, are relevant to other types of purchases is still a matter of speculation. But Eventbrite is betting they are.
"We carefully track sharing behavior in an effort to help event organizers tap into a new world of distribution for their event promotion," wrote Tamara Mendelsohn, Eventbrite's director of marketing and former senior analyst at Forrester Research, in a blog post about the study.
"But the findings apply broadly to all e-commerce businesses, because the foundations of e-commerce are shifting as the social graph becomes a meaningful influence in driving transactions."
© 2011 MASHABLE.com. All rights reserved.
