Bread served hot out of the oven. Fluffy pancakes topped with huckleberries. An espresso bar. These are the kinds of hotel breakfasts that keep guests from venturing out to a nearby restaurant.
The following properties want each element of your stay to be unforgettable, starting with the first decadent bite of the day. Each of the following breakfasts is included in the nightly rate, so go ahead -- indulge in that second still-warm croissant.
Bespoke Inn, Cafe & Bicycles, Scottsdale, Arizona
The four-room boutique Bespoke Inn, Cafe & Bicycles offers a three-course breakfast full of indulgences for every palate. If you have a sweet tooth, try items such as ginger scones with fresh peaches drizzled in local honey or vanilla French toast with toasted almonds, berries, and real maple syrup.
For those that prefer a savory start to the morning, tuck into a croque madame with black forest ham and gruyere or asparagus topped with poached eggs, extra virgin olive oil, lemon juice and parmesan. These breakfasts will set you up for a day of exploring Scottsdale on complimentary Pashley bikes. Starting nightly rate: $259.
The New Hotel, Athens
Countless affordable restaurants with a tasty breakfast fill the capital city of Greece, but the flaky croissants at New Taste -- the ground-floor restaurant in the New Hotel -- are irresistible. Pastries are baked fresh in-house every morning, filling the restaurant with that just-out-of-the-oven aroma.
The bread and pastries are served alongside a refined buffet of fresh fruit, cheeses and meats, along with eggs cooked to order and an espresso bar ready to whip up your favorite morning coffee. Starting nightly rate: About $240 (€180).
Mandarin Oriental, Boston
A decadent breakfast with a sense of place often means one thing in New England: lobster. Breakfast at the Mandarin Oriental in Boston features a lobster omelet with big chunks of lobster, boursin cheese, asparagus, caramelized onions and breakfast potatoes on the side.
Guests looking for an upgrade on a classic should check out the hotel's gourmand version of bacon and eggs with poached eggs, grilled glazed thick cut bacon piled on top of grilled sourdough bread with roasted tomato, arugula and smoked pimenton hollandaise. Starting nightly bed and breakfast rate: $539.
Number 31, Dublin, Ireland
The best breakfasts showcase an authentic taste of your destination. At a boutique guesthouse in central Dublin, traditional Irish brown bread is pulled from the oven each morning, forming the foundation of a distinctly Irish breakfast.
This crumbly bread is a fragrant and hearty accompaniment to smoked salmon and scrambled eggs or a modern execution of a full Irish breakfast, among other cooked-to-order choices.
While awaiting your order, nibble on cranberry and nut cake, vanilla poached pears or mixed berries. Each component of this breakfast is exquisite and served by warm Irish hosts. Starting nightly rate: About $200 (€150).
The Resort at Paws Up, Montana
Fresh Montana air brightens each bite of breakfast at the Resort at Paws Up. Choose accommodations in the luxurious Cliffside Camp overlooking the Blackfoot River and watch a private camp chef pick huckleberries from the surrounding slopes to create fluffy huckleberry pancakes and other memorable dishes.
Linger over freshly brewed coffee and maple glazed bacon for an impressive breakfast in the Montana wilderness. Starting nightly Cliffside Camp rate: $1475, including all meals.
The Torridon, Scotland
Indulgence varies according to destination, and in Scotland, it translates to a full Scottish breakfast with maybe a wee dram of whiskey on the side. This loch-side luxury property sets the table for a leisurely breakfast of free-range highland eggs, potato scones, Cumberland sausages, highland back bacon, grilled tomatoes and more.
Wood-smoked salmon with scrambled eggs and homemade toasted brioche is also a highlight. Travelers looking for the pleasures of natural Scotland will find them at this inn. Bed and breakfast starting nightly rate: About $360 (£230).
Saxon Boutique Hotel, Villas and Spa, Johannesburg, South Africa
What could be a more decadent start to the day than oysters and champagne? That is how executive chef David Higg likes to start his favorite meal of the day.
The continental breakfast also includes smoked Scottish salmon, mini quiches, fresh fruit and scones. For those that might prefer a cooked-to-order breakfast with their complimentary champagne, eggs benedict with Parma ham or French toast with camembert cheese and crispy bacon are also available. Starting nightly rate: About $828 (ZAR8170)
Twin Farms, Barnard, Vermont
Surrounded by 300 acres of meadows in Vermont, Twin Farms makes an impression with its breakfast as well as its location. Many guests return raving about the lemon soufflé pancakes, served with Vermont strawberries.
These light-as-air pancakes are a perfect accompaniment to fragrant Kona coffee, a nod to the owners' Hawaiian roots. This all-inclusive Relais & Chateaux property also offers fresh pastries served with jam made from berries picked on site. All-inclusive starting nightly rate: $1450, including all meals, alcoholic beverages, use of facilities and gratuities.
