Cindy Ann Yuille was a hospice nurse and everybody's friend. Steve M. Forsyth, a father of two, loved to coach youth sports teams and had an entrepreneurial spirit.
Information on the two emerged after they were killed Tuesday in a shooting at a mall in Happy Valley, Oregon, a suburb of Portland. A wounded teenager remained in serious condition.
"(Cindy) was a wonderful person who was very caring and put others first," the Yuille family said of the 54-year-old nurse who lived in northeast Portland.
Yuille, a native of California, enjoyed hiking and cross-country skiing, loved ones told The Oregonian newspaper. She had a 23-year-old daughter and 13-year-old stepson, The Oregonian reported.
Read more: Details, but no answers, in Oregon mall shooting
Her husband, Robert, told The Oregonian that his wife was "not a mall person" but had gone shopping Tuesday evening for a few things.
Both Yuilles worked on Kaiser Permanente's hospice care team in the region. Cindy worked for the company for 16 years.
"Cindy was a beloved caregiver for the kind and compassionate support she provided for patients and families at times of impending loss and need," Kaiser Permanente said. "Our hearts are with Cindy's husband and family as they absorb this tragedy and grieve."
Counseling services were offered to Kaiser employees.
Forsyth, 45, of West Linn, Oregon, had a marketing business and operated a company that produced customized wooden coasters and trivets.
"He had a great sense of humor and a zest for life," Forsyth's family said. "He had a vision and belief in others that brought great joy and value to many lives. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him."
Forsyth was "passionate" about "everyone," his friend and business partner Clayton Oswald said. "He put you ahead of himself -- he took the time, and he still got everything done."
He was racing to a kiosk to sell coasters, turning a family hobby into a family-owned business, Oswald said. "The senseless act of someone taking Steve's life while he was doing nothing more than being happy and excited to do something is incomprehensible to me."
Read more: Inside Clackamas Town Center Mall
Forsyth was full of energy and a role model, a longtime acquaintance told CNN affiliate KATU-TV in Portland.
"He was a hero to a lot of people," said Damien Smith. "He was the kind of guy who if you went to his house, he never said anything bad about anybody."
Kristina Shevchenko, 15, who also was shot, remained in stable but serious condition Wednesday afternoon at Oregon Health and Science University Hospital.
She suffered bullet fragment injuries to a lung and her liver, trauma surgeon Laszlo Kiraly told reporters, indicating more surgery is needed.
Kiraly said he is optimistic that Kristina will recover fully but added that she is at risk for complications, including infection. "She's a very brave young woman," he said, adding that she was awake Wednesday and talking to her family.
The Shevchenkos thanked emergency responders and community supporters.
"We would like to extend our sincere condolences to the families of the other shooting victims," the family said in a statement. "Our prayers are with them at this terrible time."
According to a Facebook page created by her family, Kristina was walking home with a friend when the shooter, identified by authorities as Jacob Tyler Roberts, came out of Macy's and shot her.
Kristina was a passenger in a van that was involved in a serious accident in August, the family said. The driver of the other vehicle was reportedly killed.
Read more: Gunman lived 'one crazy life'
CNN's Dorrine Mendoza contributed to this report.
