Manchester United moved five points clear in the English Premier League after snatching a 1-0 win against Bolton on Saturday despite having a player sent off.
Second-placed Arsenal lost ground after coming from behind to earn a 2-2 draw at relegation-threatened West Brom, but have a game in hand on the leaders.
Third-placed Manchester City face fourth-placed Chelsea on Sunday in a match that will have a big bearing on the Champions League hopes of Tottenham, who could only draw 0-0 at home to struggling London rivals West Ham on Saturday.
Second-half substitute Dimitar Berbatov was United's hero as he bundled home an 88th-minute winner after visiting goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen failed to hold a shot by Nani.
The Bulgarian striker had never before netted for United coming off the bench, but made a telling impact after replacing in-form Mexico forward Javier Hernandez at halftime.
Chelsea draw English rivals Manchester United in Euro quarterfinals
United, with manager Alex Ferguson watching from the stands as he started his five-match touchline ban, failed to dominate a Bolton side seeking to claim sixth place from Liverpool.
The home team lost Jonny Evans with 14 minutes to play when the Irish defender was sent off for a raised-studs challenge on Stuart Holden that required the United States midfielder to be carried off with a gashed leg.
But United kept pushing for a winner, which finally came as Berbatov moved two clear of City's Carlos Tevez in the English scoring charts with his 20th Premier League goal this season and 21st overall.
Arsenal went into the match at West Brom hoping to resurrect the team's final chance of winning a trophy this season after being knocked out of the Champions League and FA Cup plus losing in the final of the League Cup.
But Steven Reid's third-minute header and a second goal by Nigeria striker Peter Odemwingie in the 58th minute after a mix-up by goalkeeper Manuel Almunia and Sebastien Squillaci gave Roy Hodgson's hosts hope of a much-needed win.
However, Andrei Arshavin reduced the deficit with 20 minutes to play, and Dutch striker Robin van Persie equalized on 78 with an effort that just crossed the line after the Russia forward's cross hit the post.
The result lifted West Brom a point away from the bottom four clubs -- led by West Ham on goal difference from Wolverhampton.
Fifth-placed Tottenham trail Chelsea by two points after failing to score against the Hammers, despite hitting the woodwork three times as Harry Redknapp's team once again crashed back to earth after European heroics.
Having earned a Champions League quarterfinal against Real Madrid after eliminating AC Milan on March 9, Redknapp saw his team frustrated by West Ham's former England goalkeeper Robert Green on a day that Spurs' Wales winger Gareth Bale signed a new four-and-a-half-year contract.
Everton claimed eighth place, joining Bolton on 40 points, with a 2-1 win over Fulham in the late match.
Young Irishman Seamus Coleman opened the scoring in the 36th minute and France striker Louis Saha doubled the lead four minutes after the restart with his 10th goal this season before U.S. midfielder Clint Dempsey reduced the deficit just after the hour mark.
FA Cup semifinalists Stoke moved above Newcastle into 10th place after a 4-0 thrashing of their mid-table rivals that maintained the side's unbeaten home run in 2011.
Striker Jon Walters headed a first-half opener and his provider Jermaine Pennant made it 2-0 after the restart before Danny Higginbotham's free-kick added to the lead soon after, and Jamaica forward Ricardo Fuller capped the victory at the end when he came on as a late substitute.
Just three points separate the bottom eight teams, with four clumped together on 33 after Blackburn came from behind to earn a 2-2 draw at Blackpool and Aston Villa lost 1-0 at home to Midlands rivals Wolverhampton.
Wolves joined West Ham on 32 points with a first win at Villa Park in more than 30 years thanks to a winner by winger Matt Jarvis, while bottom club Wigan moved up to 30 with a 2-1 win over League Cup winners Birmingham, who remained in the relegation zone.
Liverpool, eliminated from the Europa League last week, travel to Sunderland on Sunday.
