(CNN Student News) -- August 22, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Under what circumstances might a company want to talk to the media? When might a company want to avoid doing so?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects from today's show:
1. civil war
2. radiation
3. social media
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Each side in the Syrian conflict accuses the other of using what kind of weapons, in violation of international law?
2. What pair of natural disasters caused meltdowns at a Japanese nuclear power plant in 2011?
3. What university offered basketball player Zach Hodskins a preferred walk-on spot on its team next season?
Discussion Questions:
1. Do you think that the international community should take further action regarding Syria's civil war? Why or why not?
2. Why do you think there has been debate over whether humans have caused climate change? What factors might cause climate change across the globe? Do you think humans will be able to reverse current climate trends? Why or why not?
3. Do you think that Internet access is a "human right," as Facebook's founder suggests? What challenges might exist in providing global Internet access?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
Japan
North America
Georgia
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
