Manchester City reaffirmed their grip on top spot in the English Premier League on Saturday with a 3-0 win over Fulham at the Etihad Stadium.
Sergio Aguero put the Sky Blues ahead from the penalty spot in the 10th minute after Adam Johnson was brought down by Chris Baird.
The Northern Ireland defender compounded his mistake with an own goal 20 minutes later with Edin Dzeko adding a third midway through the second half to ensure three points and maintain City's 100% home record.
Manchester United can join their city rivals on 57 points if they beat Chelsea at Stamford Bridge on Sunday.
Arsenal banged in seven goals against Blackburn Rovers at the Emirates Stadium to banish the disappointment of drawing away to Bolton Wanderers on Wednesday.
Robin van Persie's scored a hat-trick while Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain scored a brace as the Gunners ran riot.
There were also goals for Mikel Arteta and Thierry Henry to complete a 7-1 victory to move Arsene Wenger's men up to fifth place ahead of Newcastle who entertain Aston Villa on Sunday and Liverpool who take on Tottenham Hotspur at Anfield on Monday.
Defeat keeps Blackburn in 19th place with 18 points.
Norwich City move up to ninth place after a 2-0 win against Bolton at Carrow Road.
Second-half goals from Andrew Surman in the 70th minute and Anthony Pilkington five minutes from the end sees Bolton slip back into the relegation zone.
Wolverhampton Wanderers, meanwhile, move up to 17th place thanks to a 2-1 win against Queens Park Rangers at Loftus Road.
Second-half strikes from Matt Jarvis (46th minute) and Kevin Doyle in the 71st minute cancelled out debutant Bobby Zamora's first-half goal.
The defeat, which also saw other new signing Djibril Cisse sent off for violent conduct in the 33rd minute, keeps Mark Hughes' men in 16th place.
Sunderland continued their excellent run under new manager Martin O'Neill as they beat 10-man Stoke City at the Britannia Stadium.
Robert Huth's tackle on midfielder David Meyler earned the German defender a straight red shortly before half-time.
Sunderland's numerical advantage soon told as James McLean scored in the 60th minute to earn Sunderland a fifth win in six league matches.
Swansea City claimed a rare away victory beating West Bromwich Albion 2-1 at the Hawthorns.
Marc-Antoine Fortune gave the home side the lead nine minutes into the second half but Swansea wasted no time getting back on level terms with Icelandic midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson netting a minute later.
Four minutes later, English striker Danny Graham put the Welsh side in front.
The win -- only the second on Swansea's travels this season -- moves Brendan Rodgers' side up to 10th with 30 points while West Brom remain in 15th with 26 points.
Everton couldn't match their midweek heroics against top-of the-table Manchester City in their match with bottom-side Wigan.
A Phil Neville own goal in the 76th minute put Wigan on course for their first league win since November, but Nigerian striker Victor Anichebe grabbed a point for Everton, heading home seven minutes from the end to salvage a point.
Wigan remain bottom with 16 points, while Everton are 11th with 30 points.
