(CNN Student News) -- May 25, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Korean Peninsula  • Gulf of Mexico • Haiti
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Haitians getting a helping hand from hoops? You're going to see it for yourself in today's edition of CNN Student News. I'm Carl Azuz. Game on!
First Up: Korean Tensions
AZUZ: North and South Korea don't get along too well under the best of circumstances. And right now, is not the best of circumstances. South Korea is calling off trade with the North, closing off access to its waters for North Korean ships, and setting up a new military plan with regard to the North. All of this is in response to the sinking of a South Korean warship in March. The South says North Korea fired the torpedo that sank the ship. The North denies that.
The U.S. is involved here, too. President Obama ordered military commanders to work with South Korea to prevent any aggression from the North. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is urging North Korea to share what it might know about the sunken ship. Plus, the U.S. and South Korea just announced yesterday that they're going to run a military exercise together as a direct response to the March incident. North Korea says that it's considering the situation as the first phase of a war, and that if the South does anything, the North will respond.
Stopping the Leak
AZUZ: Tension on the rise in Asia. Frustration on the rise in the U.S. over this oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Some of you have talked on our blog about your frustrations with the spill. You are not alone. According to a new CNN poll, 76 percent of Americans disapprove of how BP handled the oil spill, and 51 percent of Americans disapprove of how President Obama has handled the spill.
That brings up another question: Who should be in charge of the cleanup efforts? The government says it should be BP. Since the company owns the well, the government argues that BP is responsible for stopping the leak and for the cleanup. But BP says the government has the ultimate control over the efforts in the Gulf. The one thing that both sides seem to agree on is that they're frustrated -- like you, like all of us -- with the efforts so far.
KEN SALAZAR, SECRETARY OF U.S. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR: I am angry and I am frustrated that BP has been unable to stop this well from leaking and to stop the pollution from spreading. If we find that they're not doing what they're supposed to be doing, we'll push them out of the way appropriately.
DOUG SUTTLES, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER FOR EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION, BP: I am probably just as frustrated as the secretary is. You know, we've been at this every day for more than a month now, trying to get this flow stopped and actually trying to fight this thing offshore. So, what I would say is we're doing everything we can. We've got the brightest people, the best people, every resource available putting at it. And we're going to stay at it, despite the frustration, despite the setbacks we have. We won't quit until we get this job done. I can promise you that.
Impact Your World
AZUZ: While BP and the government work to stop the underwater leak, other groups are dealing with the effects of this spill on the surface of the water and on land. And you can help out. Go to the Spotlight section on our home page, CNNStudentNews.com. Click on the "Impact Your World" link. Find out how you can volunteer to help make a difference.
Is this Legit?
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? You lose consciousness whenever you get a concussion. Not necessarily! In fact, most people who've had concussions didn't black out.
Head Injuries in Football
AZUZ: One thing that every concussion does have in common is that they all temporarily interfere with how your brain works. They can affect things like your memory, speech or reflexes. And anyone who's had a concussion is more likely to have another one. Most concussions are caused by a hit to the head. It's part of the reason you hear so much about them so much in sports, especially contact sports like this one. A congressional committee is looking at the long-term impact of these head injuries and how to prevent them. It held a hearing on the issue yesterday. Nolan Harrison, who played for 10 years in the NFL, says that the pressure of the pro game can sometimes work against concerns about concussions.
NOLAN HARRISON, RETIRED NFL PLAYER: There was always pressure to get back out on the field. There's still no parameters in place on the sidelines that you can say, "OK, this guy has had this type of a hit. We're going to keep him out for a certain amount of time."
AZUZ: The NFL is trying to tackle the issue of concussions, but it's also pushing states to look at how younger players can be affected by concussions. One of the lawmakers who's part of this hearing says it's important for the pros to set an example.
REP. LINDA SANCHEZ, (D) CALIFORNIA: And what we've seen with the NFL is, young kids in sports at all levels emulate their favorite players. And if the NFL isn't doing things correctly, it's, you have very little chance that it will trickle down, you know, to youth sports like it should. So, the NFL really needs to take the lead and really highlight safety.
This Day in History
(ON SCREEN GRAPHIC)
May 25, 1787 - The Constitutional Convention begins in Philadelphia
May 25, 1961 - President John F. Kennedy announces goal of sending an American to the moon by the end of the decade
May 25, 1977 - Star Wars opens, taking audiences to "a galaxy far, far away"
Shoutout
STAN CASE, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to the students and teachers at Robinswood High School in Bellevue, Washington! Where is Drake University located? If you think you know it, shout it out! Is it in: A) Idaho, B) Illinois, C) Indiana or D) Iowa? You've got three seconds -- GO! You'll find Drake's campus in Des Moines, Iowa. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Healing Hoops
AZUZ: Amy Stephens is no stranger to the basketball court. She played in college, she's coached for around 20 years, and she's led Drake's women's basketball team to more than a hundred wins. Recently, she took her hoops know-how out of Iowa and down to Haiti. Eric Hanson of affiliate KCCI explains why and what happened when Coach Stephens arrived.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
ERIC HANSON, KCCI REPORTER: When your whole world is shaken before age 12, escapes are simple and rare, especially for girls. You see, boys near the epicenter of Haiti's earthquake don't let a flat basketball derail a good time. But girls, their green pigtails stay on the sidelines, until a Division I women's coach shows up....
AMY STEPHENS, DRAKE UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL COACH: I might be just as nervous as they are.
HANSON: ...And convinces 40 young Haitians to trade their green dresses for Bulldog blue.
STEPHENS: Put your arms out in front, and if they can touch someone, they're too close.
HANSON: Even though not one of them can understand a word she's saying...
STEPHENS: One, two, three -- oh.
HANSON: ...Or why in the first 15 minutes of a basketball camp, baskets aren't being shot...
STEPHENS: We're making the number eight around our legs.
HANSON: ...Once ball handling became comedic, the coach used to precision decided she might as well turn them loose...
STEPHENS: OK. Lay-ups. We're doing right-handed lay-ups.
HANSON: ...On the baskets they'd been eyeing.
STEPHENS: Yes. Oh, almost.
HANSON: Air balls, there were plenty, until baskets started falling. And when they did, 6th grade girls became 6th grade girls.
STEPHENS: That's the beauty of the age group. It doesn't matter if you're Haitians or Americans. When you get excited and you high five, all of a sudden it really breaks down, it breaks down barriers.
ISAAC FILS, HAITIAN COACH: They're just so happy about playing. They're playing, so they feel very, very happy. You know? So, they're enjoying themselves, you know.
HANSON: Suddenly, the boys were the jealous ones.
SANDY HATFIELD CLUBB, ATHLETIC DIRECTOR, DRAKE UNIVERSITY: This is a group of girls who, they said, don't play basketball.
HANSON: And the girls burdened with adult-sized problems discovered it's OK to play.
CLUBB: Their joy, their excitement, just to watch them playing. They're playing just like 5th and 6th graders play. It's hard to believe, especially when you look behind them and they're living in these tents and there is rubble from the earthquake. It's overwhelming.
FILS: When they play, they forget about the awful earthquake that happened in Haiti. Sport is very, very, very good for them to make them forget some things like the earthquake. It's a good thing, you know?
(END VIDEO)
Before We Go
AZUZ: It is indeed. Before we go, a little problem-solving question. 33 students in a school band want to play drums. The school only has 6 drums. There's no money to buy new drums. The answer? You make the drums yourself! That's the solution Mike Hernandez came up with. He's the music teacher at Cove Road Elementary School in New Jersey dreamed about making drums out of buckets, so that's what he did.
Goodbye
AZUZ: All he had to do was drum up some support from the community for his creative solution. You just can't beat that with a stick! You need two of them. I'm Carl Azuz, keeping time for CNN Student News.
