English Premier League Arsenal signed teenage winger Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain Monday as they bid to strengthen their squad ahead of the new campaign which starts at the weekend.
Arsenal have been relatively quiet in the transfer window but it has taken a reported £15 million ($24.5 million) to land the signature of a 17-year-old rated one of the most promising prospects in English football.
"We are delighted that Alex has decided to join us," Wenger told Arsenal's official website.
"He is an exciting young player who will provide us with creativity and offensive quality.
"He can play as an attacking center midfielder, or wide left and right, " added the Frenchman.
According to Southampton's web site, the deal easily breaks their previous club transfer record for a player who was contracted to them until 2013.
Oxlade-Chamberlain, the son of former England international winger Mark Chamberlain, made 34 appearances for Southampton last season, scoring nine goals and helping them to promotion from the third flight of English football.
His form attracted the apparent interest of a number of top clubs, including Liverpool and Manchester United, but he opted for the Emirates Stadium.
"Arsenal have a great manager in Arsene Wenger, top-quality players and an attractive style of play," said Oxlade-Chamberlain.
"These were all important factors in me choosing to sign for Arsenal."
His move mirrors that of England international Theo Walcott, who also joined Arsenal from Southampton as a teenager and has gone on to become a first team regular.
But one player set to leave Arsenal is Danish international striker Nicklas Bendtner, who has been troubled by injury for the past year.
Bendtner told gathered reporters his intentions as he trained with the Denmark squad ahead of Wednesday's friendly international against Scotland at Hampden Park.
"I have done my part as well as I can and it's up to Arsenal now to sort it out, I can't do anything more.
"I would like to play at a place where you are happy and play every week, that is the most important thing for any football player and hopefully that will happen soon."
Bendtner has been linked with a move to fellow EPL side Stoke City.
But Wenger is expected to move to add to his defensive cover by the end of the dealing period, with Bolton's Gary Cahill, Phil Jagielka of Everton and Blackburn's Christopher Samba all linked with the north London giants.
Meanwhile, England international goalkeeper Joe Hart has signed a new five-year contract at Manchester City, tying him contractually at Eastlands until 2016.
Hart's Argentina international teammate Carlos Tevez trained with the squad Monday for the first time after being given extended leave following the Copa America.
Tevez said earlier this summer he wanted to leave Roberto Mancini's team but a move to Brazilian club Corinthians fell through.
