"Putin's Army," a new group of female fans loyal to Russia's prime minister, is calling upon all "young, smart and beautiful" women in the country who ardently support Vladimir Putin to produce amateur video clips that show how far they would go to express their affection for him.
The community, which was launched in Russia's popular social networking sites VKontakte and LiveJournal, claims to have united some 800 followers behind the idea of Putin running in the March 2012 presidential election.
It is not clear who exactly is behind this initiative, but the first video posted features a glamorous blonde who describes herself as student named Diana.
"I'm crazy about the person who has changed our country. He is a prominent politician and an awesome man. His name is Vladimir Putin. Millions of people adore and trust him," Diana says in the narrative accompanying the video.
"We are launching a contest with very simple rules. Shoot your own video as you tear up something -- or someone -- in the name of Putin. Then post your video in the VKontakte group. Those of you who produce the most original video will become the owner of an iPad 2. Tell us what YOU would do for your president," Diana says.
Putin -- who already served two terms as the country's president from 2000 to 2008 -- has not announced yet whether he or his protege, incumbent Dmitry Medvedev, would run for the top office post again next year.
On numerous occasions in the past few years, both Putin and Medvedev said they would sit down together and decide that soon.
In the video sequence, which features club music in the background, Diana walks along Moscow streets in high heels and a black suit. As she struts with an iPhone in hand, the camera occasionally focuses on her chest.
Diana joins a pair of Putin-loving friends basking under the sun by the Moscow River. The young women then look at the "Putin's Army" web page together on a laptop before Diana scribbles "I will tear off for Putin" on a white tank top in red lipstick.
Wearing that top in the closing shot, Diana tears it, briefly revealing an undergarment.
The provocative video has netted hundreds of thousands of hits online since it was first posted Wednesday, and several parodies of the clip have already appeared on the Internet.
"Putin's Army" promised that its future activities would rock the whole country, and that every girl participating in the contest would become an Internet star. The video contest will last until August 26, the group announced.
The effort isn't the first public display of affection for the Russian premier.
Last week, dozens of Putin supporters formed a flash mob in front of the main government building in Moscow and sang "Blueberry Hill" -- a song Putin performed at a charity gala concert in December.
And last October, a group of female journalism students from Moscow State University posed in bikinis for a calendar -- a birthday gift to Putin.
Putin has denounced attempts at glorifying his image or using his name in advertisements. Over the years, he has disassociated himself from various paintings, sculptures and songs that where devoted to him, saying such fuss deeply embarrasses him.
But some Russian analysts say these kinds of spectacles could be attempts to grab the attention of politically indifferent young voters before an important election season.
Russia's parliamentary elections will take place in December, and the presidential election will take place in March 2012.
