What was arguably the most anticipated video game of 2012 just became one of the most anticipated games for 2013.
Irrational Games and Take Two announced Wednesday that "BioShock Infinite" will be delayed four months to allow developers more time to make tweaks to the game. The third installment in a popular horror series, set in a dystopian undersea universe, will now be released on February 23, 2013, instead of this coming October as previously scheduled.
Creative director Ken Levine made the announcement on Irrational's website:
"When we announced the release date of BioShock Infinite in March, we felt pretty good about the timing," he wrote.
"Since then, we've come to realize that some specific tweaks and improvements will make Infinite into something even more extraordinary. Therefore, to give our talented team the time they need, we've decided to move the game's release to February 26, 2013. We wanted to let our loyal (and very patient!) fans know this as soon as possible.
"I won't kid you: BioShock Infinite is a very big game, and we're doing things that no one has ever done in a first-person shooter," he added. "What does this mean for you? It means a bit more waiting, but more importantly, it means an even better BioShock Infinite."
Levine said developers will hold off on showing "BioShock Infinite" this summer at such gaming events as E3 and Gamescom.
"That way, the next time you see our game, it will be essentially the product we intend to put in the box," he said. "Preparing for these events takes time away from development, time we're going to use instead to get the best version of Infinite into your hands in February."
Fans have been waiting for the next creation in the "BioShock" universe since "BioShock 2" was released in 2010. The new title will take players beyond the underwater realm of the first two games and put them in Columbia, a futuristic city in the sky, during a time of anarchy and strife.
In an interview with CNN last December, Levine described how excited he was to work on this new setting.
"In all these stories, you have these incredible themes. One of great optimism and excitement for the future and one of this ominous feeling at the same time," he said. "This yin and this yang that was present in all of this research really made me excited to work on this game."
Response from fans on Internet message boards Wednesday was generally positive, with many saying they are willing to wait longer for the game if it lives up to expectations.
