NEW ORLEANS, Louisiana (CNN)  -- Fans of porn star Stormy Daniels are drafting her to run for the U.S. Senate seat in Louisiana now held by Republican Sen. David Vitter. And it's no racy gimmick, they say.
Porn star Stormy Daniels, who has no party affiliation, says she's "always up for a good fight."
The Draft Stormy Web site says that "2010 presents the Pelican State with the opportunity to start with a clean slate -- to elect a representative that we can be proud of, who will work tirelessly, and who will challenge the status quo. We at the Draft Stormy campaign feel that Baton Rouge native Stormy Daniels is best suited to fulfill these duties."
Vitter is famous -- or infamous -- for his link to the "D.C. Madam," the woman who ran a prostitution ring. Elected to the Senate in 2004, he admitted to "a very serious sin in my past" in July 2007 after his phone number turned up in records of an escort service run by the late Deborah Jeane Palfrey, known as the D.C. Madam.
Running for re-election, Vitter said his wife has forgiven him and is banking on the same sentiment from his constituents. Will the Draft Stormy move mean stormy weather for Vitter?
The senator's office didn't return calls by CNN. But a spokesman for the state GOP said voters "are concerned with real issues that affect their everyday lives and not with political or publicity stunts."
The Draft Stormy campaign was started by New Orleans resident and Daniels fan Zack Hudson, who insists it's for real.
Daniels, 29, isn't affiliated with a party but is embracing the idea of a possible candidacy.  Watch the adult entertainment star talk about a possible run »
She said she's planning a "listening tour" around Louisiana to talk about a range of matters, including the economy -- which along with women in business and protection of children are the three issues listed on her Web site. When told Vitter can be a tough opponent, she said she's "always up for a good fight."
"I think anyone that knows me ... is more than aware of that," Daniels said. "Politics can't be any dirtier of a job than the one I am already in."
According to a capsule bio on the Draft Stormy Web site, Daniels has been "breaking barriers and shattering glass ceilings her entire life," serving as editor of her high school newspaper and president of her school's 4-H Club and eventually transferring "her determination and talents to the professional level, becoming a featured performer in the adult entertainment industry."
Another stride was "signing an exclusive contract with the video production company Wicked Pictures, a company committed to a health and safety first policy, as pertaining to its video performances. Stormy's decision to sign with Wicked highlighted her commitment to sending a positive message to young people of the importance of practicing safe sex," the bio said.
Daniels has directed films for the company, won awards for writing, directing and acting, and has appeared in mainstream films such as "The 40-Year-Old Virgin."
"Originally, the focus wasn't even about making me as a candidate," Daniels said. "I think it was about bringing attention to the Senate race in general. Then the response was overwhelmingly positive. And I think everyone is just running with it."
While her political aspirations may be a light diversion for Louisiana voters, reality will set in if Daniels tangles with Vitter. Clancy DuBos, political director of the New Orleans alternative newspaper Gambit, said Vitter is a brilliant politician with a campaign war chest worth $2 million.
If the Daniels campaign is meant to remind voters of Vitter's D.C. Madam link, the move could backfire, DuBos said.
"You are going to need someone better than a porn star, or a lap dancer, or a sex worker to nail David Vitter on this," he said. "You need a serious opponent who is himself, or herself, not guilty of something like that to say, 'Let's talk about family values, shall we?' "
The Draft Stormy movement said Daniels' "real world experience and special understanding of the economic hardships facing Louisianans and Americans make her uniquely qualified to take on the tough challenges we face.
"Our grass-roots movement spans the political spectrum and champions Stormy's philosophy of personal responsibility and the promotion of individual enterprise. We eschew partisanship and labels, instead judging our leaders on their integrity, character and effectiveness."
CNN's Sean Callebs contributed to this report.
