Pam Biggers, a 52-year-old woman from Hueytown, Alabama, disappeared while on a business trip to the Florida Panhandle.
Pam Biggers disappeared while on a business trip to the Florida Panhandle in January 2008.
She drove to the La Quinta Inn at Panama City Beach on January 27, 2008, a Sunday. She checked in and talked with her husband over the phone about 5:30 p.m.
She told him she was going out to eat with a colleague who was staying across the hall.
After an early dinner, the two women returned to their rooms about 7 p.m., police said. And then Pamela Biggers simply disappeared.
"It's completely baffling," said her husband, Don Biggers. "All of her belongings, clothes, purse, cell phone, were left in her room."
Biggers' bed did not look slept in, police said, but it appeared that she had been reading in bed. Her open book and glasses were on the bedside table, and the pillows were propped up against the headboard.
She had not changed into her pajamas, and her hotel room key and car keys were in the room. There was no sign of struggle, police said.  Watch Rupa's report on this baffling cold case »
Biggers' family believes that she left the hotel and either lost her way or became the victim of foul play.
"We think she may have initially wandered off on her own," Don Biggers said. "She had some episodes ... complaining of voices in her head and paranoia."
She'd been on medication but had decided to stop taking it, he added.
Biggers said he was concerned about his wife's health and urged her to not go on the business trip.
Police searched for Biggers for weeks. Her family brought in Texas Equusearch, a specialized search and rescue operation. The group conducted ground and air searches and used cadaver dogs but was unable to find any clues.
The hotel did not have surveillance cameras, so it is not known when Biggers left or whether she was alone. Hotel staffers did not recall seeing Biggers leave.
She had driven to Florida in the family car, which was in the hotel parking lot.
According to her family, Biggers had never wandered off before, nor had she suffered from memory loss.
She had just learned that her son, Jacob, was to be dispatched for a tour of duty in the military to Afghanistan and may have been stressed about that, her husband said.
Police and the Biggers family are asking the public for help. Anyone who has seen Pam Biggers or has more information leading to the person or people responsible for her disappearance is asked to call the Bay County Sheriff's Office tip line at 850-747-4700.
A $20,000 reward is offered.
Biggers was last seen wearing a white sweater, black pants with white pinstripes, a wedding band and an aquamarine ring. She is a white female who stands 5'8" tall, weighs 135 pounds and has green eyes and gray hair.
