When Hillary Clinton joins candidates across the country, there is a standard formula for those introducing her: Rev up the crowd, tout candidates on the ballot, speak positively about Hillary Clinton.
It appears Sen. Elizabeth Warren didn't get the message.
When Warren and Clinton both stumped for Martha Coakley, Massachusetts' Democratic candidate, in Boston on Friday, Warren barely mentioned the former secretary of state.
"Happy to welcome Secretary Clinton back to the commonwealth," Warren said, firing up the crowd. "We love it!"
Warren has seen an uptick in speculation that she will run for president lately. While the senator has said she isn't running for president, she has left the door open and has continually dodged question about Clinton. The reason: If Warren were to run, she would likely face Clinton, the former secretary of state is widely seen as the frontrunner for the Democratic nomination.
Related: Warren tells CNN Democrats must 'stand up and fight'
Clinton, by comparison, was effusive in her praise of Warren, the pride of many liberals because of her commitment to take on Wall Street and big banks.
Clinton labeled Warren "the passionate champion for working people and middle class families."
"I love watching Elizabeth," Clinton added, touting her ability to "you know, give it those who deserve to get it."
Compare what Warren said about Clinton with how other members of the Senate have introduced Clinton recently.
"Hillary is a hero to me and too so many others," said Sen. Al Franken at an event with Clinton on Thursday. "People admire Hillary because she spent her life fighting for economic and social justice."
Franken then made the praise personal: "And I would add she is funny. By the way, I am not saying that because I want to pay her a nice compliment. I wouldn't say it if I didn't mean it. ... Hillary is truly, truly funny."
Sen. Mark Udall, who is running for reelection in Colorado, all but endorsed Clinton for president earlier this week while introducing her.
"We hope she is going to come back over the next few years," he said to a roaring crowd, before touting Clinton's record of fighting for workers "all over the world."
Clinton struck a populist tone during her appearance with Warren and Coakley. She spoke about trickle down economics, telling the audience that the concept "should be confined to the trashbin of history."
"Don't let anybody tell you that raising the minimum wage will kill jobs," Clinton said. "Don't let anybody tell you that it's corporations and businesses that create jobs."
Clinton was in Massachusetts for her first event of a busy day in the Northeast. After endorsing Coakley - who a recent poll finds her behind Republican challenger Charlie Baker - the former first lady travels to Rhode Island and Maine to endorse Democratic gubernatorial candidates.
