A Salvadoran national wanted in connection with the brutal slaying of a Colorado man was named to the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitive list on Thursday.
Edwin Ernesto Rivera Gracias is accused of killing of Richard Limon, 69, in August 2011. Law enforcement officials allege that Rivera Gracias choked, beat and stabbed the man and then dumped his body in the mountains outside of Denver. Limon was a longtime family acquaintance of the fugitive's teenage girlfriend, the FBI said.
The wanted poster for Rivera Gracias says he's between ages 29 and 33, is about 5 feet, 10 inches tall and weighs approximately 170 pounds.
According to the FBI, Rivera Gracias is a member of the Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, gang and has several tattoos, including one of "MS-13" across his back.
Rivera Gracias was in the United States illegally at the time of the slaying, the FBI says, and he may have fled back to El Salvador. The FBI is offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to his arrest.
"The greatest weapon against crime is the cooperation of all law enforcement and the public they serve," said Ronald Hosko, assistant director of the criminal investigative division. Hosko said Rivera Gracias is accused of a "brutal crime against an elderly person."
At a news conference in Colorado, the victim's daughter said she hopes Rivera Gracias will be caught.
"All I want is for justice to be served because it's hard for me to get over it," Michelle Limon said. "I want justice to be served because I would be able to sleep better at night knowing everyone's paying for what they did."
The FBI's Top Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list was launched in 1950. The program seeks to publicize terrible crimes and get tips that lead to arrests. Rivera Gracias is the 498th person to make the roster.
Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was on the list until he was killed in Pakistan during a May 2011 raid by U.S. forces. Alleged Boston mob figure James "Whitey" Bulger spent more than a decade on the list and ultimately was captured in June 2011 in Santa Monica, California.
Photos of Rivera Gracias and his description can be viewed at http://www.fbi.gov/wanted/topten/edwin-ernesto-rivera-gracias.
