(CNN Student News) -- April 11, 2014
The Atlantic Hurricane Season is coming, but it's not expected to be particularly stormy. Today on CNN Student News, we'll tell you why and explain that forecasting is not an exact science. We also take you deep beneath the ocean's surface, and we look into the mystique of the Masters Tournament.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why do you think that some audiences might be interested in advance weather forecasts? How might this information be used? What might be its limitations?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What famous author of King Lear is being remembered in celebrations marking his 450th birthday this month?
2. Voters in what country waited in line for hours and braved Taliban threats of violence in order to cast their ballots?
3. Britain's Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are more commonly known by what first names?
4. What is the term that refers to a measurement of water depth equal to six feet?
5. The phrase "Boston Strong" helped unite the city and the U.S. after the 2013 terrorist attack at what event?
6. What "season" officially begins on June 1 ends on November 30?
7. What major federal law designed to outlaw discrimination in businesses and public places was signed 50 years ago?
8. What term, associated with a large loan, refers to the cost of borrowing the money, including the interest rate and other fees?
9. What military base did President Obama visit this week to participate in a memorial for soldiers who were attacked there?
10. Winners of what major, international sporting event are awarded the green jacket?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
