(CNN)  -- Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button secured a McLaren one-two in a dramatic  Turkish Grand Prix on Sunday as they took advantage of a collision between Red Bull pair Mark Webber and Sebastian Vettel.
Polesitter Webber was leading when his German teammate tried to overtake him on lap 41 of 58 and succeeded only in crashing into him and going off.
Webber, who looked set for this third straight victory, had to pit to have a new nose cone, leaving Hamilton, who had been strongly challenging in third, to take the lead from Button, the reigning world champion.
The pair then engaged in their own private duel, with Button briefly heading his fellow Briton, before Hamilton took the lead for the final time to secure his first win of the season.
Webber completed the podium and the third place helps him maintain the lead in the title race, five points clear of Button, with Hamilton moving up to third place, four points further adrift.
The Mercedes pair of seven-time champion Michael Schumacher and Nico Rosberg finished a distant fourth and fifth with Robert Kubica sixth for Renault.
The Ferraris of Felipe Massa and Fernando Alonso were seventh and eighth, hardly an auspicious performance to mark the 800th grand prix for the famous red cars.
German Adrian Sutil was ninth for Force India and Japanese Kamui Kobayashi completed the points scoring for Sauber in 10th.
To complete a disappointing afternoon for Red Bull, they lost the lead to McLaren by a single point in the constructors' title race.
"A big shame for the team -- and not an ideal scenario at all," said Webber as he recalled the disastrous incident with Vettel.
"It can happen. He had a slight speed advantage, but he turned right into me and made contact and ... well, that was it.
"There was a long way to go and I was not guaranteed to win, but it was an interesting few meters on the track between us."
Red Bull team boss Christian Horner was not amused: "It was very disappointing. I need to talk to both drivers. We did everything right as a team, but they should never have been there, where they were.
"It is bad for the team and we have lost a lot of points. I always ask them to give each other room, but we have handed the points on a plate to McLaren now.
"We saw Lewis and Jenson racing each other and giving each other space. That's all we ask for."
It was the McLaren team's second one-two of the season, with Button leading Hamilton home at a rain-hit Chinese Grand Prix on April 18.
Hamilton was delighted to have secured his 12th career win and his first since Singapore last year.
"I don't know what happened, but they collided and we got past them and we had a bit of a battle -- a fair one, I must say - before the end," he said.
"It was a great result for the team and I am happy to dedicate it to my dad for his 50th birthday tomorrow."
