Cricket legend Shane Warne will end his playing career as planned on Friday, but the former Australia bowler has been fined $50,000 over a row with an Indian official.
The Rajasthan Cricket Association had called for the 41-year-old to be banned after he criticized its secretary Sanjay Dixit following a defeat by the region's Royals team in the Indian Premier League competition.
Warne, who is captain and coach of the Royals, had been unhappy about a switch of playing pitches in Jaipur during the 20-over tournament.
The Board of Control for Cricket in India, of which Dixit is a finance committee member, said that Warne had made a "serious" breach of the rules of his IPL contract.
However, its disciplinary committee said it had taken into account that Warne, the second-highest wicket-taker in Test history, had apologized to Dixit for his comments.
"The commission is conscious of the duty of all parties involved in the Indian Premier League, to uphold the image and reputation of the game of cricket, the BCCI and the League at all relevant times," it said in a statement on the BCCI website after Wednesday's hearing.
"Any action which is a breach of this duty is to be treated with all necessary severity. It regards the public criticism of Mr. Dixit as being a serious breach by Mr. Warne of his IPL playing contract.
"However, at the same time, the commission also recognizes that Mr. Warne has apologized to Mr. Dixit, and that the incident occurred just after the match. In addition, the commission is cognizant of the contribution to the game of cricket in general, and to the Indian Premier League, which has been made by Mr. Warne."
The BCCI warned that similar future transgressions by Warne or any other player would result in a higher fine, a suspension and/or a deduction in points for their team.
Warne retired from international cricket in early 2007, having taken 708 wickets in the five-day format.
He joined Rajasthan in 2008, leading the Royals to the IPL title in the tournament's inaugural season, but the leg-spinner was unable to take his team to this year's playoffs.
Warne's final game will be away to Mumbai Indians on Friday, with the Royals having lost four in a row.
The franchise's chief marketing officer Raghu Iyer said earlier this month that it hoped Warne would retain his association with it and help develop young talent.
