They won't be able to count for a few years, but when the time comes, they'll be able to practice by using their unusual birthdays.
At least four babies were born Saturday at 10:11 a.m. across the United States. If you follow the American style of writing dates, that means they arrived at 10:11 on 12/13/14.
Parents David and Katherine Jones did not realize they'd hit that sequence of numbers until a nurse excitedly pointed it out, said Kimberly Romo, a spokeswoman for Tucson Medical Center in Arizona.
The couple had other things on their mind -- Victoria Marie Jones was not due until December 31. Instead, she came early via C-section.
"The doctors just said it had to be like right now, and none of us realized what time it was," David Jones told CNN. "One of the nurses in there is the one that actually caught it.  All of this happened so fast."
Victoria came in at 5 pounds and 10 ounces. She arrived just in time for her parents, who are Navy veterans, to catch the annual Army-Navy football game.
"It is a tradition for us to watch the game," her dad said.
Two hours earlier, when it was 10:11 in the Eastern time zone, Hazel Grace Zimmerman was born to parents Leisha Campbell and Shawn Zimmerman in Ohio's Cleveland Clinic.
Hazel is the couple's fourth child, hospital spokeswoman Sabrina Powers told CNN. She weighed in at 7 pounds and 14 ounces.
"We knew she was going to be born today, we just didn't know it would be at 10:11 a.m.," Leisha Campbell told CNN afiliate WEWS. "Everyone is telling us we should play the lottery. We feel this is a lucky day and are excited to get family photos with Santa."
Clare Elizabeth Keane's birthday also will be an easy one to remember. She was born at 10:11 a.m. on 12/13/14 at the University of Massachusetts Memorial Medical Center in Worcester, CNN affiliate WBZ reported.
In Tennessee, parents Kristi and Bryan Caruthers have another reason to call son Callum's birth at 10:11 on 12/13/14 a miracle. The couple had previously been told their only hope for parenthood was surrogacy or adoption, Mountain States Health Alliance spokeswoman Teresa Hicks said in an email.
For those who go by military time, another miracle! In West Des Moines, Iowa, Maclane Thomas Flynn was born Saturday at 3:16 p.m., which translates to 12/13/14 at 15:16 in military time.
Maclane is Dan and Courtney Flynn's second child, CNN affiliate WHO-TV reported.
