Chelsea have qualified for the last 16 of the European Champions League after two Didier Drogba goals helped them to a 3-0 Group E victory over Valencia at Stamford Bridge.
The English Premier League side needed a victory to guarantee their place in the knockout stage and they got the perfect start when Drogba scored in the third minute -- Chelsea's fastest ever Champions League goal.
Midfielder Ramires doubled their advantage midway through the half after capitalizing on some hesitant Valencia defending.
Real Madrid to topple Barcelona in 'El Clasico' clash?
And Drogba sealed the victory 14 minutes from time when sliding the ball home from Juan Mata's slide-rule pass.
The result also means Chelsea top the group with 11 points after Bayer Leverkusen -- who had already qualified -- were held to a 1-1 draw by Genk in Belgium.
Jelle Vossen put the home side ahead in the first half with a superb volley, but Swiss striker Eren Derdiyok leveled for the Bundesliga side 11 minutes from time.
Leverkusen go through as group runners-up on 10 points, with third-placed Valencia going into the Europa League and Genk eliminated from Europe.
There was late drama in Group F, where Marseille came back from 2-0 down to win 3-2 at Dortmund, a result that saw them go through to the last 16 in second place behind already-qualified Arsenal.
Poland midfielder Jakub Blaszczykowski put the home side ahead from close range in the 23rd minute and Mats Hummels doubled Dortmund's advantage nine minutes later from the penalty spot, after captain Sebastian Kehl received a nasty kick in the face from defender Stephane Mbia.
But Marseille gave themselves hope on the stroke of half-time when Loic Remy headed home Morgan Amalfitano's right-wing cross.
The score stayed that way until five minutes from the end when Andre Ayew powerfully headed home Amalfitano's corner.
And a sensational comeback was completed just two minutes later when substitute Mathieu Valbuena skipped past a couple of challenges before curling home a delightful winner.
Marseille's victory was bad news for Olympiakos, who beat a depleted Arsenal side 3-1 in Piraeus.
Rafik Djebbour put the hosts ahead from a tight angle after a defensive mix-up and David Fuster made it 2-0 when goalkeeper Vito Mannone's headed clearance fell to his feet -- and he found the net from outside the area.
Yossi Benayoun pulled a goal back early in the second half with a fine strike from just inside the area but Olympiakos secured the win when Francois Modesto scored from close range after Olof Mellberg's header had come back off the post.
Despite the win, Marseille's comeback means Olympiakos (9 points) have to settle for the Europa League.
Arsenal finish top on 11 points with Marseille just a point behind and German champions Dortmund out of Europe on just four points.
Surprise packages APOEL Nicosia had already qualified from Group G, but they ended the group with a defeat as Shakhtar Donetsk claimed a 2-0 away victory.
The Ukrainian side had already been eliminated, but they inflicted a first defeat on the Cypriot side courtesy of goals from Luiz Adriano and Yevhen Seleznyov.
Porto needed to beat Russian champions Zenit St Petersburg at home to qualify alongside APOEL, but the visitors defended solidly to secure a 0-0 draw.
It meant APOEL and Zenit both qualified with nine points, with the Cypriot side top virtue of a better head-to-head record. Porto (eight points) have to settle for the Europa League.
Barcelona and AC Milan had already qualified from Group H, but they enjoyed contrasting fortunes on Tuesday.
Defending champions Barca thumped BATE Borisov 4-0 at the Nou Camp despite coach Pep Guardiola resting a host of key players ahead of 'El Clasico' against Real Madrid on Saturday.
Real Madrid to topple Barcelona in 'El Clasico' clash?
It may have been an unfamiliar line-up, but the style of football was completely familiar as Barca scored at will against the Belarussians.
Sergi Roberto opened the scoring in the 35th minute from the edge of the area and Martin Montoya made it 2-0 on the hour mark with his first senior goal.
The more familiar face of Pedro added a third when he flicked home a cross -- and the Spanish international scored his second of the evening from the penalty spot.
So Barcelona strolled through as group winners with an impressive 16 points, while BATE are eliminated in bottom place.
In the other match, Italian champions AC Milan wasted a two-goal lead as Czech side Viktoria Plzen scored twice in the final minute to snatch an unlikely 2-2 draw.
Alexandre Pato put Milan ahead two minutes after the break when controlling Robinho's pass on his chest before rounding the keeper to score.
And a minute later, the two Brazilians combined again, this time for Robinho to fire home.
But, in a dramatic finale, Marek Bakos crossed for David Bystron to tap home from close range. Then Michal Duris burst into the Milan area in injury time to score a dramatic equalizer.
Milan qualify for the last 16 in second place with nine points, while Plzen go into the Europa League after finishing with five points.
