This time there was no denying Mo Farah in the 10,000 meters at the world championships.
Two years ago in Daegu, South Korea, Farah was beaten by Ibrahim Jeilan in a dramatic finish.
But he showed no ill effects on home soil at last year's Olympics in London, claiming the double in the 5,000 and 10,000 meters -- and popularizing the Mobot in the process.
And on Saturday in Moscow, the Briton edged Jeilan in the 10,000 meters to add to his 5,000-meter world title.
Sprint king Usain Bolt, who also shone in London, later eased through in the 100-meter heats on the opening day of the championships.
Farah crossed the line in 27 minutes, 21.71 seconds in front of a less than packed Luzhniki Stadium, defeating Jeilan by nearly half a second.
He ran the last lap in an impressive 54 seconds to hold off the Ethiopian, who had overtaken Farah in the final few meters in South Korea.
"I saw him coming at the bell, knew he was behind me and so I had to have something left," Farah told the BBC. "It was nice to see him second this time and beat him.
"I didn't want to lose again."
His form this season suggested he would be hard to beat, with Farah setting a European record in the shorter 1,500 meters in Monaco in July and personal best in the 3,000 meters at the Anniversary Games in London a week later.
He plans to focus on the marathon following the world championships.
"It was nice to come out here and win it," said Farah, born in Somalia. "Training's been really hard. I've spent a lot of time away from my family and when I came home for the Anniversary Games, my little daughter didn't even recognize me.
"But it's definitely been worth it."
American Galen Rupp, Farah's training partner, missed out on the bronze as Kenya's Paul Tanui grabbed third.
He took time, though, to praise Farah.
"He was the best last year and that continues this year," Rupp told the BBC. "I think the great thing about him is he continues to do the same things and he knows he has to work so hard in training and that's what makes him the type of runner he is."
Bolt, meanwhile, cruised in his heat in 10.07 seconds.
He is the overwhelming favorite in Sunday's final since reigning world champion and fellow Jamaican Yohan Blake skipped the event due to a hamstring injury and American Tyson Gay pulled out after testing positive for a banned substance.
Gay owns the two fastest times in the world this year.
The build-up to the world championships was overshadowed by positive tests to Gay, former 100-meter world-record holder Asafa Powell and two-time 200-meter Olympic gold medalist Veronica Campbell-Brown.
On Saturday, the Trinidad Express reported that Trinidad and Tobago sprinter Kelly-Ann Baptiste, third in the 100 meters in Daegu, failed a drug test and left the world championships.
In the first medal event of the championships, Kenya's Edna Kiplagat made history when she became the first woman to retain the marathon world title.
Her time of 2:25.44 was 14 seconds quicker than Italy's Valeria Straneo. Japan's Kayoko Fukushi captured the bronze, two minutes behind Kiplagat.
