(CNN Student News) -- August 16, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
In a news report about a medical condition, what kind of information might be important to the viewer?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What professional sports league suspended about a dozen players this summer for 50 games each, for allegedly taking performance-enhancing drugs?
2. Thurgood Marshall, Sandra Day O`Connor, and William Taft were all members of what body of the U.S. government?
3. What kind of natural disaster resulted in the collapse of a Florida resort building on Sunday?
4. Who was elected president of Egypt in June 2012 and then forced out about a year later?
5. What is a hurricane-strength storm called in the Philippines?
6. What is the name for a natural object that falls from space and strikes the Earth?
7. More than 100,000 people have applied for a one-way trip to what planet?
8. Who is the current chancellor of Germany?
9. What is the name of billionaire Elon Musk's proposal for high-speed travel that uses electric motors and air pressure?
10. What is the first name of the United Kingdom's new royal baby?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
Egypt
North America
Florida
Europe
United Kingdom
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
