Manchester City have confirmed that absent Brazilian striker Robinho will be back in time for the Premier League side's return to training next week.
Robinho had a reputation for partying prior to his British-record transfer to Manchester City last August.
City manager Mark Hughes told the club's official Web site that Robinho, who cost mega-rich City a British record fee of £32.5 million ($45m) when he signed from Real Madrid in August, will be spoken to after not joining the rest of the squad in a Tenerife training camp this week -- choosing instead to fly to Brazil to attend to a family matter.
Hughes told mcfc.co.uk: "Robbie left without permission, he felt that he had personal things that he needed to attend to.
"He made the decision to leave the camp, and go back to Brazil. That was not with my permission, and the situation at the moment is not really practical to get him back here with time differences and length of flights, so he will be back at the weekend ready to train when we are back in Manchester at the first available opportunity.
"Once he is back, I will sit down with him and explain my feelings, and decisions will be made after that. He has rung me, and he understands that we need to address this -- and we will. Then we will move on.
Robinho's decision to fly to Brazil came on the same day that City announced they were pulling out of a world record transfer move for AC Milan star Kaka, a Brazilian team-mate of Robinho. However. Hughes has insisted that that two matters are completely unrelated.
Robinho is no stranger to controversy and had a reputation as a party-goer prior to his move to Manchester last year.
He was dropped by his former Madrid coach, and now England national coach, Fabio Capello, who questioned his attitude and Robinho's eventual departure from the Spanish club was acrimonious.
In fact, in October 2007, Robinho failed to return to Madrid after appearing for Brazil in an international match, claiming he had missed his flight.
Local newspapers later revealed that he had been seen partying in a popular Rio de Janeiro nightclub and he was subsequently fined and dropped by the club.
