(CNN)A second individual has been charged with attempting to carry out an "ISIS-inspired" terror plot, Australian police say.
Five young men were arrested Saturday in Melbourne, Australia, in what police called a major counterterrorism operation.
Two of the teens, 18 and 19, have been released "pending further inquiries," Australia's Federal Police said.
Sevdet Besim, 18, was charged with conspiring to commit a terrorist act, and was denied bail Saturday. The person charged Monday is accused of conspiring to commit acts done in preparation for, or planning, terrorist acts.
The suspects planned to attack during a major national commemoration in a week, Prime Minister Tony Abbott said Saturday. "The act that we believe was in preparation involved attacks against police officers," he said.
There was also a risk to the public, police said.
Police said the suspects were targeting a ceremony on Anzac Day (Australia and New Zealand Army Corps Day), which is April 25 and this year is the centennial of the Gallipoli Campaign in World War I.
Abbott avoided the term ISIS -- or Islamic State -- to call out those who authorities believed influenced the suspects. He instead referred to the group as the "Daesh death cult," employing the acronym that is transliterated from the group's name in Arabic. It's a handle ISIS is known to loathe.
Police also distanced the suspects from any ethnic connection.
The men "are individuals acting by themselves. They are not representatives of any religious, cultural or national group," Victoria Police Acting Deputy Commissioner Shane Patton said.
"I think the entire Australian community should be concerned about the young age of those particular men," Neil Gaughan, acting deputy commissioner of the Australian Federal Police, said. "And this is an issue not just with law enforcement, but for the broader community. ... We need to get better in relation to identifying young men and woman involved in this type of behavior, at the very early stage."
CNN's Ralph Ellis and Ben Brumfield contributed to this report.
