Inter Milan exited this season's Champions League to Marseille in a dramatic finish to their last 16, second leg tie in the San Siro Tuesday.
Trailing visitors Marseille 1-0 from the first leg, 2010 winners Inter leveled on aggregate through a Diego Milito goal in the 75th minute.
The match looked headed for extra time until a long clearance found Marseille substitute Brandao, who eluded two defenders before beating Julio Cesar with a low shot.
Inter were stunned but had time for one more attack, Giampaolo Pazzini earning a penalty as he was brought down by Marseille goalkeeper Steve Mandanda, who was sent off for a second yellow card.
Pazzini converted the penalty with the last kick of the match as it finished 2-2 on aggregate.
But the French side went through on the away goals rule to reach the quarterfinals of the competition for the first time since 1993
The defeat will heap the pressure on Inter's coach Claudio Ranieri, who has seen his side win just once in 11 games to slide down Serie A.
Both Wesley Sneijder, who was later substituted, and Milito spurned cast-iron chances in the first half to give Inter some breathing space in the tie and they paid a heavy price.
"This match is a picture of our season, we played better than Marseille and even tonight we had the clearer chances," Ranieri told Italian television.
"Over 180 minutes Marseille had three shots on goal but in football the team who wins is the one that scores, so well done to them.
"This year we haven't had any luck, I can't ask the team for more."
Meanwhile, Mario Gomez scored four goals for Bayern Munich as they romped into the quarterfinals with a 7-0 rout of FC Basel.
Bayern trailed 1-0 from the first leg, but their Swiss visitors were overwhelmed in the Allianz Arena once Arjen Robben had scored the opener after just 10 minutes.
The Bavarian giants had warmed up for the match with a 7-1 rout of Hoffenheim in the Bundesliga Saturday and continued in the same vein.
Thomas Mueller added the second on 42 minutes before Gomez grabbed the first of his tally on the stroke of half-time.
He added three further second half goals in the space of 17 minutes with Robben rounding off Basel's humiliation with his second before the finish.
"It was fun to play in that. To score seven goals in a Champions League match speaks for itself," said Robben.
"Fourteen goals in our last two games speaks volumes for the way we have played," he told gathered reporters.
In the English Premier League Tuesday, Liverpool beat Merseyside rivals Everton 3-0 with captain Steven Gerrard scoring a hat-trick.
Everton could have gone above their neighbors with victory at Anfield but were always on the back foot after Gerrard's superb lobbed goal in the 34th effort.
Luis Suarez set him up for his second after the break and he rounded off his triple in stoppage time.
The result leaves Liverpool two points behind sixth-placed Newcastle in the standings.
