Before her wedding, Katharine McPhee talked with InStyle about meeting her future husband, picking the ring and her wedding day.
(InStyle.com) -- Every bit the blushing bride, American Idol alum Katharine McPhee gushes about her producer fiance, Nick Cokas, and shares their plans for a big, fat, half-Greek wedding.
Q: How did you and Nick meet?
We met in 2005, doing a show in Los Angeles called The Ghost and Mrs. Muir. [Cokas was a producer.] I had just turned 21 and had no idea what I was doing with my life. I was totally focused on my career.
Plus, I was at my wit's end with this other boyfriend. Nick and I went on a few dates. We would go to a bar, and then go back to his car. It was so high school. We'd kiss in the car and then talk until like four in the morning. It was very sweet.
Q: Tell us about your gown.
It's a Manuel Mota for Pronovias. It originally had lace straps that were very beautiful, but I really like my shoulders. That part of my body is one of my favorites. I wanted to show off my shoulders and my back a little bit for the wedding. And the people at R-Mine Bridal Couture, where I bought it said, "No problem. We can make it into a sweetheart neckline."  Watch how she looked at wedding »
Q: Are you going to wear a veil?
Yes, but I wasn't going to at first. I thought, "Who wears veils over their heads anymore? This is 2008!" But now I am excited to wear one. I think it will be good because I might be teary-eyed when I'm coming down the aisle... or nervous. My dad's going to pull it back for me when we get to the altar.
The thing about weddings is it's the one time in your life that you actually get to wear a big, poofy dress. Unless you're getting an Academy Award, you really don't have opportunities like that, so you might as well take advantage of it. I say, "Go big! This is your wedding. Go big!"
Q: Do you have any advice for other brides?
Remember that it's your wedding day. Nick and I talk about this a lot. We're having these amazing musicians come for the cocktail hour and we're having this huge gospel choir, this huge band and everything's big, big, big. The dress is big, and we have so many groomsmen and bridesmaids, but you know what? At the end of the day, it's really about the expression of commitment in love and marriage.
So, don't get too carried away. A wedding is about the commitment of love that you're making to your partner. It's as simple as that.
Q:Will any of your Idol "classmates" be performing?
Mandisa is actually going to sing at the ceremony. She is going to sing this song that means a lot to me and Nick. It's called "Stay with You" by John Legend, and we're going to have the gospel choir behind her. And then Kellie [Pickler] will be there, but I don't know if she'll sing. She might just hang out.
Q: Tell us about your ring. Did you pick it out together?
Nick designed it with jeweler Cindy Boudov, an amazing woman who does everything by hand. The poor thing [Cokas]. I was all over the place. We'd be in this store, we'd be in that store, and I was, "I want that one," and he'd be, "But you just said you wanted a pear shape." And then I'd be, "Oh, look at this antique ring. I want it to look like that, really antique looking." He was, "Oh my god."
He did an amazing job. It's just beautiful, so I'm a happy girl. [McPhee's ring is a 3-carat-brilliant-cut round diamond set in platinum.]
Q: What are your honeymoon plans?
We're leaving the day after the wedding for Maui. We've never been there before. I really want to ride in a helicopter and go hiking, and I want to take surf lessons. I am not much of a lay-on-the-beach kind of girl. I want to be in the ocean. E-mail to a friend
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2009 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
