A Los Angeles County Superior Court commissioner revoked the probation of actress Lindsay Lohan on Wednesday and ordered her to appear in court next month.
"In the case ending 679, probation is revoked," Commissioner Jane Godfrey told Lohan's attorney in court. "Defendant ordered to appear."
Lohan, 26, wasn't in court Wednesday.
The probation violation hearing will be on January 15.
Photos: Celebrity mugshots
Lohan was on probation for a 2011 conviction on charges she stole a necklace, but that probation was jeopardized last month when the city attorney in Santa Monica, California, filed four charges against her in connection with a car crash last summer.
Lohan's long history in the criminal justice system and her struggle with drugs and alcohol have taken her to court 19 times and to five rehabilitation facilities for a total of 250 days since January 2007.
In the Santa Monica case, Lohan is accused of giving false information to a police officer, obstructing or resisting a police officer in performance of his duty, and reckless driving, according to the city attorney's office.
The charges, all misdemeanors, stem from a car crash last June while Lohan was on her way to the set for the filming of "Liz & Dick," a Lifetime movie that aired this week.
Read more: Liz & Dick' producer talks the risky business of hiring Lindsay Lohan
She is accused of telling police her assistant was driving the Porsche, while witnesses told investigators they saw Lohan behind the wheel.
"During the subsequent investigation, information was developed that Lohan was the driver of the Porsche when the accident occurred," the Santa Monica prosecutor said in a statement to CNN last month.
On the day the city attorney filed charges last month, Lohan had been earlier arrested in New York in connection with an alleged 4 a.m. fight at a Manhattan nightclub.
Lohan may have hit another woman at the Avenue Lounge, New York police said. Authorities declined to say whether she faced charges.
In that case, Lohan's New York lawyer, Mark Heller, told CNN last month: "Once again, Lindsay Lohan is a victim of someone trying to capture their 15 minutes of fame."
"From my initial investigation, I am completely confident that this case will be concluded favorably and that Lindsay will be totally exonerated," Heller said of the New York incident.
Read more: Lindsay Lohan hangs with The Wanted post-arrest?
CNN's David Daniel and Alan Duke contributed to this report.
