(InStyle.com) -- Pure elegance rules at the Golden Globes Awards!
See the stunning gowns that have captivated the world -- from Marilyn Monroe to Angelina Jolie and many more.
Anne Hathaway, 2011
"I am wearing little CDs, America!" joked Anne Hathaway to Ryan Seacrest of her all-over paillettes. "I've got to give it a little shimmy-shim." Her stylist Rachel Zoe called the Armani Prive gown "super-fashiony and glamorous."
Angelina Jolie, 2011
Perhaps as a nod to her favorite gemstone, Angelina Jolie chose a shimmering emerald gown from Atelier Versace.
InStyle.com: See all 23 of the best Golden Globes gowns of all time
Emma Stone, 2011
Blond for her role in "The Amazing Spider-Man," Emma Stone played up her peachy complexion with a pastel gown from Calvin Klein Collection.
Zoe Saldana, 2010
In a nod to Victoriana, Zoe Saldana wore a charmingly dishabille design in shades of crimson by Louis Vuitton.
Jennifer Lopez, 2009
Jennifer Lopez played up her golden skin with a barely-there gilded gown from Marchesa.
InStyle.com: The 12 riskiest Golden Globes looks ever
Beyonce, 2009
Beyonce upped her personal sparkle in a beaded Elie Saab strapless gown and 200 carats of Lorraine Schwartz diamonds.
Cameron Diaz, 2009
Although the bright watermelon hue was a standout, it was the artistic pleating and draping that made Cameron Diaz's Chanel gown unforgettable.
Eva Mendes, 2009
Eva Mendes worked a Christian Dior silk taffeta gown and what she jokingly referred to as a "little bauble" -- a 1974 turquoise-and-diamond Van Cleef & Arpels collar.
Reese Witherspoon, 2007
Reese Witherspoon made red-carpet history in Olivier Theysken's debut design for Nina Ricci. The yellow shantung bustier minidress was worn with red Brian Atwood shoes.
InStyle.com: 10 most memorable hair and makeup looks at the Golden Globes
Cate Blanchett, 2004
The expectant Cate Blanchett was magnificent in a bump-hugging cabernet gown. "I loved the drama of deep red against Cate's perfect pale skin," said Donna Karan of the design.
Kate Hudson, 2003
Kate Hudson selected a multi-print haute-hippie design for her red-carpet stroll. "When she wore my gown she left the world, including me, in awe with her young, relaxed and elegantly fresh California look," Valentino told InStyle.
Marilyn Monroe, 1962
The original spotlight-stealer! Marilyn Monroe accepted her sole Golden Globe in a timeless sequined emerald jersey gown by Norman Norell.
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
