(CNNGo) -- From the Maldives to Macau, escape to these restaurants for a healthy helping of stunning scenery.
1. S.O.S. Anantara Seminyak -- Bali, Indonesia
Spread eagle to eat atop massive daybeds on the S.O.S. Anantara Seminyak's elongated rooftop, shown above, with the Indian Ocean directly below.
Seminyak Beach's highest nightspot even has a glass clad catwalk for hungry exhibitionists to strut their stuff between courses.
The Indonesian satay combo arrives on a sea monster-inspired charcoal burner and the Spanish menu reads like a list of aphrodisiacs.
Those who choose among four prime cuts of Black Angus steak can have their slab served cooked to order.
2. RAW Huvafenfushi -- Maldives
Whether going barefoot down the jetty or getting there wet by a breast stroke, the Maldivian fantasy island's RAW Huvafenfushi over-water eatery will momentarily take any appetite away.
Once your eyes can focus off the 360° water world, your attention turns to the kitchen's theatrical concoctions, like the igloo carved to serve premium sashimi.
Live lobster gets dunked in fondue and local reef fish carpaccio come topped with wild mushrooms, pink peppercorn and pomegranates, making healthy dishes here often better dressed than the diners.
3. Kahanda Kanda Galle -- Sri Lanka
Appreciate the walls-free hilltop dining room of Kahanda Kanda Galle.
Curves grace oversized urns on the smooth polished concrete floor, ideal for dining bare, at least on the feet.
The Sri Lankan chef works primarily with ingredients from the surrounding fertile fields, or in the banana tarte tatin, freshly shaken off the swaying branches.
Check out more great travel tips and destinations at Five To Go
4. Khmer Village House Siem Reap -- Cambodia
Diners arrive at Amansara's revamped village house on stilts more than a thousand years too late to watch Khmer kings in Srah Srang, the 10th century royal bathing reservoir just across the dirt path inside the grounds of Angkor Wat.
Instead, would-be voyeurs can entertain themselves by picking vegetables on these bountiful grounds then cooking an indigenous feast over charcoal braziers, assisted by the private chef.
He's ready to take charge of the curries when heating things up in the kitchen becomes more of a chore.
5. Gulai House, The Datai, Langkawi -- Malaysia
Surrounded by virgin rainforest, Gulai House with its thatched roof establishment on Langkawi's northwestern shore is a sight for a green lover's sore eyes.
Working up a ravenous appetite for pakoras, chicken tikka, and daging lada hitam, aka wok-fried beef in black pepper and kaffir lime, is mandatory.
See the full story at CNNGo.com
© 2011 Cable News Network Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
