It was as busy day of dealings Friday as football clubs around Europe decided who to buy and which players to sell before the close season transfer window closed.
Premier League champions Manchester City signed Brazil's right-back Maicon from Inter Milan for an undisclosed fee and late on snared Spain international midfielder Javi Garcia.
City boss Roberto Mancini has also brought in Scott Sinclair from Swansea City for an undisclosed fee and Fiorentina defender Matija Nastasic.
Blues' Montenegro international Stefan Savic and Dutch midfielder Nigel de Jong headed to Italy to join Fiorentina and AC Milan respectively.
De Jong has signed a contract with the seven-time European champions which will keep him at the San Siro until 2015.
Also on his way to Serie A was Arsenal's Nicklas Bendtner who joined Juventus on a one-year loan deal.
The 24-year-old Danish striker took to Twitter to voice his approval saying: "I want to fulfil my potential here and show the fans my absolute best as that is yet to come. I am sure I will."
Meanwhile on the red side of Manchester, striker Dimitar Berbatov has finally chosen a new English suitor.
After flirting with offers from Italy -- notably Fiorentina and Juventus -- the 31-year-old Bulgarian international moved to Fulham on a two-year deal for an undisclosed fee.
"I'm impressed with the set up here and the people have made me feel welcome. There is a close and personal feel around the Club and I can't wait to get started," Berbatov told the west London club's official website.
The Bulgarian international will be joined by another former United player, Kieran Richardson.
The 27-year-old joins from fellow English Premier League side Sunderland.
Rafael van der Vaart is on his way back to the Bundesliga after Tottenham Hotspur and Hamburg agreed a deal thought to be worth nearly $16 million.
The 29-year-old Dutch international, who played three seasons for the German club before joining Real Madrid in 2008, has signed a three-year deal, concluding a successful two-season spell with the north London club.
Tottenham used the proceeds from this sale and the earlier transfer of Luca Modric to Real Madrid to sign United States international striker Clint Dempsey, who had been a Liverpool target, from Fulha,
They also secured the signature of French international goalkeeper Hugo Lloris from Lyon, both deals completed late Friday night.
Swansea City have signed Valencia winger Pablo Hernandez for a club record fee of nearly $9 million.
"I want to thank the club and (Swansea City manager) Michael Laudrup for making me feel like a very important player. Now I want to repay that faith on the football field," the 27-year-old said on the club's official website.
After offloading striker Andy Carroll to West Ham United on loan on Thursday, Liverpool announced Friday that they were permanently dispensing with the services of Scottish international Charlie Adam.
The 26-year-old midfielder has moved to Stoke City for a reported $6 million fee after spending just 13 months at the Merseyside club.
