Authorities searching for a missing Oregon boy are seeking information from the public on the child's stepmother.
The Multnomah County Sheriff's Office released a flier Friday with pictures of Terri Horman, who told investigators she last saw her stepson, Kyron Horman, 7, inside Skyline Elementary School in Portland on June 4.
A form to be filled out and returned to the police by anyone who was at the school the day Kyron disappeared was attached to the flier.
"At any time did you see Terri Horman at or near the school?" was among the questions in the form.
Capt. Jason Gates issued the following statement Friday on the decision to request information on Kyron's stepmother:
"Detectives work in this case is exhaustive and they, along with Kyron's family, are asking for the community's assistance regarding anyone who saw not only Kyron, but also who may have seen Terri Horman and/or the truck she was driving that morning. Terri is the last person known to have seen him before he disappeared."
In a brief phone interview with CNN, sheriff spokeswoman Lt. Mary Lindstrand said the focus of the investigation is not on Terri Horman.
"We're looking for every bit of information that we can," Lindstrand said. "We are not in a position to name anybody a person of interest."
The two-week-old case has been labeled a criminal investigation, involving one of the largest police search and rescue operations in state history.
Kyron's family released a statement Friday urging the public to help bring him home.
"It has been two weeks since our son, Kyron, disappeared," the family said. "For the last 14 days, we haven't been able to talk to him, see him playing around the house, or tuck him in bed. Any parent would understand the grief this has caused our family.
"Father's Day is Sunday. For the first time in seven years, we will not have Kyron around to hug and talk to. It hurts us deeply and our hearts are broken," the statement reads.
Kyron was wearing dark cargo pants and a black T-shirt with the "CSI" logo on it at the time of his disappearance. He is 3-foot-8, weighs 50 pounds and has brown hair and blue eyes.
Anyone with information is asked to call the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office.
