Zulqarnain Haider has touched down in London after going AWOL before Pakistan's series deciding one-day international with South Africa in Dubai.
The wicketkeeper disappeared from the Pakistan team hotel on Monday morning and was pictured arriving at Heathrow airport later in the day.
The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) confirmed he had requested his passport on Sunday night and was then nowhere to be found the following morning.
Reports claimed he had received threatening messages after he scored the winning runs to help Pakistan beat South Africa in the fourth ODI on November 5.
He was later fined $140 for breaking a team curfew, along with teammates Shahzaib Hasan and Abdur Rehman.
As the mystery of his whereabouts deepened, the PCB released a statement confirming Haider had gone missing.
"This morning Pakistan wicketkeeper Zulqarnain Haider left the team hotel without informing any member of the Pakistan team management," it read.
"Zulqarnain was in possession of his passport at the time he left the hotel which he had taken from Pakistan team management the previous evening for personal use.
"The PCB has informed Dubai police of the incident and also has brought it into the notice of ICC's Anti-Corruption Unit. All other concerned authorities were also taken into the loop.
"The information shared with PCB by local authorities indicates that Mr Haider has left the UAE for the United Kingdom. PCB continues to monitor this situation and is in regular contact with concerned authorities in this regard.
"A full inquiry will be held into the circumstances surrounding this incident and no further comments will be made until the facts are known."
The 24-year-old made no comment after landing in London.
The UK Press Association later quoted Rana Faisal, a senior superintendent of police in Lahore, as saying that 12 officials had been sent to Haider's family home "so that they can be guarded properly if there is any threat."
South Africa won the match in Dubai by 57 runs and completed a 3-2 series win over Pakistan.
