There's a lot to look forward to in the last week of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, including individual event finals for men's and women's gymnastics. Can all-around women's champ Gabby Douglas add to her gold tally in Monday's uneven bars? Who will reign supreme in the men's 400 meters, for which South Africa's Oscar Pistorius, the Olympics' first double amputee runner, failed to qualify.
Here are five things to look for Monday at the 2012 London Games:
1. Track and field: Who wins the men's 400 meters is anybody's guess.
Since 1920, and with the exception of the Moscow Games which it boycotted, the United States has won a medal in the 400 meters at every Olympic game. Not so this year.
Bolt sprints to Olympic gold
A hamstring injury forced LaShawn Merritt, the gold medalist in the event in Beijing, to pull out in the semifinals. And South Africa's Oscar Pistorius, the Olympics' first double amputee runner, failed to qualify.
The favorite to win is Lalonde Gordon of Trinidad and Tobago, who posted the fastest time in the semis on Sunday.
The race will take place at 9:30 p.m. London time. (4:30 p.m. ET)
2. Gymnastics: Gabby's golden chance
Everyone's favorite 'it' girl, Douglas, will try to add to her medal haul in the final for the uneven bars. But she will have to outdo Elizabeth Tweddle of Great Britain, He Kexin of China and Victoria Komova of Russia.
Murray beats Federer to take gold
The uneven bar final takes place at 2:50 p.m. (9:50 a.m. ET)
3. Diving: China looks to extend gold streak
China has already claimed five of eight gold medals up for grabs at the diving pool in London. It looks to make it six in the 3-meter springboard with He Chong, the current world champion.
He faces stiff competition from fellow teammate Qin Kai as well as from a pair of Russians, Evgeny Kuznetsov and Ilya Zakharov.
Americans Troy Dumais and Chris Colwill, who won the bronze in the 3-meter synchronized springboard, are also considered possible medal contenders.
Opinion: Americans missing best Olympic stories
The springboard preliminary round takes place at 7 p.m. (2 p.m. ET).
4. Track and field: New Zealand's forgotten champ
Defending Olympic shot put champion Valerie Adams of New Zealand looks to defend her title after the New Zealand Olympic Committee forgot to register her for the event in London.
The New Zealand committee moved quickly to resolve the error and include the heavily favored Adams, who has won three consecutive world titles.
American gold medals
The shot put final takes place at 7:15 p.m. (2:15 p.m ET)
5. Basketball: NBA stars meet Argentina's top guns
The U.S. men's basketball team, populated with NBA stars, is facing off against Argentina, helmed by Manu Ginobili, Carlos Delfino and Luis Scola.
In an exhibition game in July against Argentina ahead of the Olympics, the U.S. team beat Argentina 86-80.
The game is the last of the round of group play before the start of the quarterfinals. The U.S. team takes on Argentina two days after battling Lithuania to a 99-94 victory.
The game begins at 10:15 p.m. (5:15 p.m. ET)
