Michael Jackson's mother and his three children will be immersed in the pop icon's music, dance and imagery as they attend the premiere of Cirque du Soleil's "Michael Jackson: The Immortal World Tour" in Montreal, Canada, Sunday.
Katherine Jackson, who sat through four days of disturbing testimony in the trial of the doctor charged in her son's death, agreed with the Michael Jackson estate and Cirque du Soleil just this past week to attend the opening performance this weekend, according to a source close to the Jackson family.
The agreement is a sign Katherine Jackson and the men who now control her son's estate as executors have reached an understanding that should ease the tensions that erupted in probate court soon after Michael Jackson's death in 2009, the source said.
Jackson's mother waged a legal challenge against lawyer John Branca and music executive John McClain, who were named as executors in her son's will, but dropped it several months later. Relations between the Jackson family and the estate have been tense from that beginning.
The trip, which includes Prince, Paris and Blanket Jackson, will not end until October 9 when they return to Los Angeles following the Michael Forever Tribute show in Cardiff, Wales, next Saturday, the source said.
With several of Michael Jackson's brothers and sisters also traveling to the Wales concert, most of the Jackson family's eight seats in Dr. Conrad Murray's trial will likely go empty until next week.
Jackson's children never saw their father perform live on stage, but the Cirque du Soleil show promises for two hours to "capture the essence, soul and inspiration of the King of Pop, celebrating a legacy that continues to transcend generations."
The road tour will reach at least 47 cities in the United States and Canada over the next year.
The circus company, legendary for its creative and acrobatic performances, first talked to Jackson seven years ago about the possibility of a Jackson-themed show, Cirque's president said when the agreement with his estate was announced in April 2010. The estate and Cirque du Soleil are equal partners.
The MGM Mirage has signed on to host the Las Vegas, Nevada, residency starting in 2012. The hotel also will open a nightclub based on the Jackson show, the hotel said.
