On ABC, Thursdays now officially belong to Shonda Rhimes.
As the creator of flagship ABC programs "Grey's Anatomy" and "Scandal," Rhimes has already carved out a two-hour block on Thursdays with those two dramas. But this fall, ABC will air three of Rhimes' shows -- which she co-produces with Betsy Beers -- all in a row.
The network, which announced its 2014-2015 lineup Tuesday, has slated "Grey's Anatomy" for the 8 p.m. hour on Thursdays, to be followed by "Scandal" at 9 p.m. and Rhimes' new drama, "How to Get Away with Murder," at 10 p.m.
The series is set in a law school and stars Viola Davis as the "brilliant, charismatic and seductive" professor of a criminal law class she dubs "How to Get Away with Murder." When Davis' professor becomes involved with four students from her class, the lawyers-in-training realize they have to apply what they've learned to real life.
In addition to that series, ABC is adding five other new programs to its fall lineup, four of which are comedies.
The president of ABC's Entertainment Group, Paul Lee, said in a statement that the network has made an effort to reflect the U.S.'s diversity with its new schedule.
"This season we set out to develop passion projects from world-class storytellers and showcase the faces and voices of America," Lee said. "Both plans unleashed a wave of creativity and we're extremely excited about the new slate."
Here's what you should watch for on ABC this fall; new shows are in bold, and all times are Eastern.
Monday
8 p.m.: "Dancing With the Stars"
10 p.m.: "Castle"
Tuesday
8 p.m.: "Selfie": A woman realizes that having social media friends can't substitute for the real thing, and asks a marketing expert to help her "rebrand" and learn how to build IRL connections.
8:30 p.m.: "Manhattan Love Story": A romantic comedy that shows what people really think on dates.
9 p.m.: "Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D."
10 p.m.: "Forever": A star New York medical examiner studies the dead to solve cases but also in the hope that he'll uncover why he's immortal.
Wednesday
8 p.m.: "The Middle"
8:30 p.m.: "The Goldbergs"
9 p.m.: "Modern Family"
9:30 p.m.: "Black-ish": A comedy about an affluent black family that asks whether "success brought too much assimilation."
10 p.m.: "Nashville"
Thursday
8 p.m.: "Grey's Anatomy"
9 p.m.: "Scandal"
10 p.m.: "How to Get Away with Murder": Annalise Keating (Viola Davis) is the no-nonsense professor of the law class dubbed "How to Get Away with Murder." When she becomes entangled with four of her students, they realize they'll need to apply what they've learned to real life.
Friday
8 p.m.: "Last Man Standing"
8:30 p.m.: "Cristela": A comedy about an ambitious sixth-year law student on the verge of landing a big internship.
9 p.m.: "Shark Tank"
10 p.m.: "20/20
Saturday
8 p.m.: Saturday Night Football
Sunday
7 p.m.: "America's Funniest Home Videos"
8 p.m.: "Once Upon A Time"
9 p.m.: "Resurrection"
10 p.m.: "Revenge"
ABC is planning to pile on the drama in the midseason, when the network will add another Marvel series to its calendar, the "Captain America" spinoff "Marvel's Agent Carter."
There will also be a drama from "12 Years A Slave" screenwriter John Ridley called "American Crime"; a murder mystery series called "Secrets and Lies" that stars Ryan Phillippe; a Steven Spielberg-produced series about aliens that have invaded the planet by using children called "The Whispers"; and a comedy adaptation of chef Eddie Huang's memoir "Fresh Off the Boat."
