(InStyle.com) -- The Cyrus family is ready to rock and always on a roll at its new L.A. home. Kick back and chill out with Billy Ray, Miley and the entire guitar-crazy clan.
Billy Ray, Tish and Miley join Braison and Noah for chips and salsa in the kitchen before a rare barbecue.
After months on the road, playing concerts one city at a time, Hannah Montana deserves a little R&R when she gets home.
"I just Superman onto my bed," says Miley Cyrus, 15, whose Disney Channel alter ego has made her a pop sensation, with two multiplatinum sound-track albums and more than 70 sold-out concerts in the past year. "I love to sleep. I'd sleep all day if I could."
Her father and Hannah co-star, country music icon Billy Ray Cyrus, prefers to think of the family's Mediterranean-style villa in North Hollywood as more than a crash pad.
"I like for the house to be an escape from the insanity that is outside," says the 46-year-old singer and actor best known for his signature hit "Achy Breaky Heart."
Inside, the superstars focus simply on relaxing with Miley's mom and manager, Tish, 41, grandmother Loretta Finley (who runs Miley's fan club), 72, brothers Trace, 19, and Braison, 14, and sisters Brandi, 21, and Noah, 8.
"Our house is fun," says Miley. "Parts of it are really modern, but it's mostly old Italian country."
She opted for a "more chill" vibe in her two-room bedroom one for sleeping, one for hanging out and playing music with friends such as dancer Mandy Jiroux and High School Musical's Ashley Tisdale.
Inspired by the ultra-cool Viceroy Hotel in nearby Santa Monica, the suite has sea blue walls, coral-filled lamps and a delicate shell chandelier that hangs over her bed. "It feels beachy and Old Hollywood," says Miley. "I love the way the room is laid out."
Billy Ray felt the same way about the entire house the first time he saw it in 2007, when the family decided they needed more space and privacy in the after-blast of Hannah Montana's success... "I just walked in and said, 'That's it; that's the place,'" he says.
Though Billy Ray and Miley have work to do in their native Tennessee, where the highly anticipated Hannah Montana movie is filming, right now he's eager to lead his youngest daughter on a roller-skating expedition around the house.
Miley sits at the foot of the stairs, teaching her brother how to break in his guitar strings. The Cyrus clan is happy to be home, even if the comings and goings of family and friends sometimes get as crazy as life on the road.
"It feels like we're at the YMCA; there are so many people just in our family," Miley says with a laugh. "Then our friends come over, and it's like, OK, this is a stinkin' country club!"
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2009 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
