Embattled country singer Mindy McCready fought for custody of her son in an Arkansas courtroom Friday, a little more than a week after she was accused of fleeing with the 5-year-old and refusing to return the boy for days.
The judge in the case made no decision in the custody hearing, which pitted McCready against her mother. The hearing was continued to a later date, said Kat Atwood, McCready's publicist.
"Mindy and her family are pleased the courts are handling this case with care," Atwood said.
The judge could decide whether the boy stays in foster care under Arkansas state custody, goes to his grandmother's home in Florida or goes to McCready's home, CNN affiliate KARK reported.
This custody battle became national news after McCready took her son from her mother's Florida home in late November and had asked a court to restore custody to her out of concern over the boy's safety.
On December 1, a Florida judge issued an emergency "pick up" order for young Zander McCready.
Days after the order, McCready was found by authorities hiding in a closet with her son in a home in Arkansas.
The boy was then taken into the custody of the Arkansas Division of Children and Family Services.
Until recently, the boy had been living with Mindy McCready's mother and stepfather, Gayle and Michael Inge, who have legal custody. The singer, who has fought a public battle against drug addiction, has visitation rights.
The singer burst on the music scene in 1996 with the debut album "10,000 Angels" and the chart-topping country hit "Guys Do It All the Time."
McCready participated in the 2009 season of the reality TV show "Celebrity Rehab With Dr. Drew."
A biography on her website says she had an "explosive relationship" with the boy's father, Billy McKnight, who also is a country singer.
McKnight released a statement about the incident just after the boy was found in Arkansas.
"As we move forward from this incident, please remember that everyone has the ability to make positive changes in their life," the statement said.
