Teenage Nigerian weightlifter Augustina Nkem Nwaokolo claimed the first gold medal on day one of the Commonwealth Games in Delhi.
The 17-year-old took top prize in the women's 48kg division and set a new Commonwealth record in the process by lifting 175kg as events finally began after weeks of controversy surrounding Delhi's readiness to host the Games.
It's the first time India has hosted the competition between countries of the former British Empire and the build-up was dominated by negative headlines about the cleanliness of the athlete's village as well as poor construction.
Nwaokolo lifted 77kg in the snatch and 98kg in the clean and jerk to deny India's Soniya Chanu. The home favorite failed with two attempts at lifting the 103kg required to take gold.
In the men's 56kg category Malaysia's Amirul Hamizan Ibrahim took gold ahead of Sukhen Dey and Srinivasa Rao of India.
Ibrahim posted a new Commonwealth Games record of 166kg to win his second gold after Manchester in 2002. He missed the Games in Melbourne four years ago due to a doping ban.
In the pool, Kylie Palmer swam to gold for Australia in women's 200 meter freestyle ahead of Jazz Carlin, who secured Wales' first medal since 1974, while England's double Olympic champion Rebecca Adlington stook bronze.
Australia claimed a one-two in the 200m individual medley with 18-year-old Alicia Coutts upsetting her teammate, and favorite, Emily Seebohm.
South Africa's Chad Le Clos set a new Games record as he pipped England's Michael Rock to gold in the men's 200m butterfly while Canada's Ryan Cochrane beat Australia's Ryan Napoleon by 11 hundredths of a second to claim the 400m freestyle.
Australia struck gold again when they clawed back the English team in the 4x100m freestyle relay.
Away from the pool Australia also proved too good for the rest of the field in the artistic gymnastics team competition, as they finished three points clear of England to take gold.
After the opening day of competition, Australia top the medals table with four gold's while South Africa, Canada, Nigeria and Malaysia all have one.
