Cristiano Ronaldo was crowned FIFA's world player of the year in Zurich on Monday as Manchester United's star winger completed a stunning trophy collection.
Portuguese winger Ronaldo completed a stunning trophy collection when named World Player of the Year.
Portugal international Ronaldo helped United win the Premier League, Champions League and world club championship titles in 2008.
Ronaldo also collected the European Player of the Year accolade and was voted number one by FIFPro, the worldwide players' union.
Now Ronaldo has seen off 2007 winner Kaka, of AC Milan, Spain Euro 2008 top scorer Fernando Torres of Liverpool and Barcelona stars Xavi and Lionel Messi.
"It's another overwhelming moment in my career," said 23-year-old Ronaldo who received the award from Brazilian legend Pele. "It's a tremendously emotional moment and a dream come true. I'd like to dedicate this to my family."
Ronaldo also paid tribute to club manager Alex Ferguson who fought a very public battle with Real Madrid last summer when the Primera Liga giants attempted to lure the player to Spain.
"It's also true that the manager always has an important role to play. It was a great season for me and for my club, and the coach was important for me because I learned a lot for him," he said.
"His experience over so many years is of paramount importance -- it's a privilege to have such a great club manager.
"This is the climax of a fantastic era for me. I'm happy and proud about what has been done by my team and what we have won.
"I am lucky to to be part of the history of a club like Manchester United."
Messi led Argentina to the Olympic gold medal in August and Nou Camp teammate Xavi was named UEFA's player of the tournament when Spain won Euro 2008 in June.
Ronaldo's 31 league goals in the 2007-08 season, and 42 in total, won him the European Golden Shoe as the continent's top scorer.
He is the first Premier League-based start to win FIFA's top individual award while David Beckham and Thierry Henry, both twice, and Frank Lampard finished runners-up.
The awards are voted for by the head coaches and captains of all countries.
Olympic silver medalist Marta of Brazil was named the FIFA women's player of the year for the third successive campaign.
