David Beckham returned to the AC Milan team to help inspire them to an emphatic 5-2 victory over Genoa on Wednesday which kept up the pressure up on Inter Milan at the top of Italy's Serie A.
The England midfielder is in his second spell with Milan having joined on loan from Los Angeles Galaxy for six months and replaced the injured Alexandre Pato in the starting line-up.
Despite not getting on the scoresheet, Beckham's passing created problems throughout and he impressed on the right of a three-man attack in a game watched by England coach Fabio Capello.
Genoa took the lead in the 25th minute through Giuseppe Sculli gave, but a penalty from Ronaldinho, who had earlier missed from the spot, brought Leonardo's team level in the 32nd minute.
Thiago Silva gave Milan the lead at the break before two goals from Marco Borriello early in the second half and a penalty from Dutch international Klaas-Jan Huntelaar put the game beyond Genoa, who grabbed a consolation from David Suazo 11 minutes from time.
Elsewhere, Inter Milan continued where they left off before the winter break with a 1-0 win over Chievo in Verona thanks to Mario Balotelli's first-half strike.
Goran Pandev was handed his debut by Jose Mourinho following his arrival on a free transfer earlier this month and he was involved in the only goal of the game.
Neat work by Pandev and midfielder Wesley Sneijder sent Balotelli through on goal and his first shot was saved by Chievo keeper Stefano Sorrentino.
Juventus returned to winning ways after three consecutive defeats in all competitions before the winter break with a 2-1 win over Parma thanks to goals from Hasan Salihamidzic and Paolo Castellini's own-goal after Nicola Amoruso had equalized for Parma.
Elsewhere, Roma conceded twice in stoppage time as they drew 2-2 with Cagliari while Napoli climbed up to fourth with a 2-0 win over Atalanta and Fiorentina hammered Siena 5-1.
Lazio eased their relegation worries with a 4-1 victory over Livorno as Catania boosted their survival hopes with a tense 1-0 win over Bologna.
Sampdoria missed the chance to climb above Palermo in the table after being held to a 1-1 draw by the Sicilian outfit as new Udinese coach Gianni De Biasi suffered defeat in his first game in charge after his side were beaten 2-0 by Bari.
