At the American Music Awards on Sunday, there was plenty of love for international artists.
British boy band One Direction was a big winner at the 2014 ceremony, taking home both the artist of the year award and the trophy for favorite pop/rock band, duo or group.
Australian rapper Iggy Azalea, who walked into the ceremony as the lead nominee with six nods, also won two awards on Sunday, including the favorite rap/hip-hop album honor.
"This award is the first award I've ever won in my entire life, and it means so much to me that it is for best hip-hop because that's what inspired me to move to America and pursue my dreams, and it's what helped me when I was a teenager to escape and to get through my life and to better times," Azalea told the audience while accepting her trophy.
Meanwhile, soulful British singer Sam Smith, who showcased his pipes during Sunday's ceremony, was awarded the favorite pop/rock male artist trophy.
That's not to say that homegrown artists were left out in the cold: Katy Perry, Beyonce and country stars like Luke Bryan also got their due.
But some stars shone brighter than others during what wound up being a rather tame affair. Once the AMAs were all said and done, here's who left everyone talking:
1. Taylor Swift
Talk about star power. On Sunday, music's reigning pop princess, Taylor Swift, received the Dick Clark Award of Excellence from none other than Diana Ross.
Swift, being the smart young woman she is, recognized the importance of having the trailblazer there, and honored Ross in her acceptance speech.
"I'm just so blown away to have just received an award from Diana Ross, who over the course of her career stood up for herself so many times in a time when it was not popular for a woman to stand up for herself," she said. "I'm so honored."
Swift, who performed her single "Blank Space" on Sunday, also thanked her fans for pushing sales of her new album "1989" well past one million. The album is not available on the streaming service Spotify, and during her speech for her Dick Clark award, Swift appeared to be sticking to her guns.
"What you did by going out and investing in music and albums is you're saying that you believe in the same thing that I believe in, that music is valuable and should be consumed in albums, and albums should be consumed as art and appreciated," Swift said.
2. Jennifer Lopez
Jennifer Lopez promised to perform her single "Booty" at the AMAs, and the singer/actress gave a set for the ages.
Iggy Azalea was there, too, but even she admitted that J. Lo (and her flexibility) stole the show.
