(CNN Student News) -- May 7, 2014
The White House has released a new report on climate change. Today on CNN Student News, find out what the Obama administration says, how critics respond, and what exactly is in the report. We also cover a potential new danger involving North Korea, and we explain how an issue with FAA computers had ripple effects across California's airspace.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What questions should a person ask when given data that is designed to raise awareness about a controversial topic?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. ocean acidification
2. U-2 aircraft
3. commencement
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Who has released a new report about climate change? What do critics say about this report? According to the report: What are some changes that could be in store for different regions of the U.S. as a result of climate change? How might the oceans be affected?
2. What is the primary function of the U-2 plane? How high can this plane fly? What happened when a U-2 flew over California last week? How did this have lasting effects on air traffic in the area?
3. When did fighting between North Korea and South Korea end? Which country is an ally of the U.S.? What do U.S. military officials believe that Kim Jong Un's regime is ready to do? According to the video, what is the challenge surrounding this possible action? Why are officials worried about this weapon with regard to North Korea? What do analysts say about satellite photos taken of a missile test site in North Korea?
4. According to the video, who are some of the high-profile commencement speakers being protested? Why? Who are some commencement speakers whose appearances have generated controversy in years past?
Discussion Questions:
1. In your opinion, should the international community respond to missile testing by North Korea? If so, how? If not, why not?
2. How do you think that colleges should choose their commencement speakers? In your opinion, with whom should the final decision rest? Why? When some potential speakers are ruled out on the basis of controversy, do you think it illustrates the exercise of free expression or the limit of it? Explain.
3. If you were graduating from college this month, who would you want to see address your class at commencement? Why? What topics would you like this speaker to address?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
