December 13, 2013
CNN Student News wraps up the week with reports on record low temperatures across the U.S. and a possible shift in the crisis in Ukraine. And as two U.S. government agencies consider whether in-flight cell phone calls should be allowed, we hear a range of opinions on the issue. Plus, we discuss a proposed rule change intended to cut down on injuries in Major League Baseball.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How well do the news media convey the effects of cold temperatures on different parts of the country? What kinds of images are most and least effective? Explain.
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. On which continent would you find the coldest place on Earth?
2. What country is hosting the 2014 FIFA World Cup?
3. What is the capital of Ukraine?
4. More than 90 world leaders traveled to the memorial service of what former South African president?
5. An outbreak of what disease prompted Princeton University to make a controversial vaccine available to students?
6. Whom did TIME Magazine select as its Person of the Year for 2013?
7. What central African nation's capital city is Bangui?
8. Mary Barra will be the first female CEO of what major U.S. automaker?
9. American Merrill Newman recently returned home after being detained for weeks in what country?
10. What U.S. organization is planning to ban intentional collisions between base runners and catchers?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Europe Ukraine
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
