(InStyle.com) -- In "Eat, Pray, Love," Julia Roberts plays Liz, a globe-trotting, soul-searching writer who spends the better part of a year living out of her suitcase (and who looks great nevertheless). It's the latest in a long line of memorable -- and stylish -- roles for the star. But twenty-plus years in the spotlight have proved that she's no slouch on the red carpet, either: Her simple, classic aesthetic consistently scores high marks.
Read on, as InStyle pays tribute to her 10 most memorable looks ever, both on-screen and off.
"Pretty Woman" Believe it or not, it's been two decades since the premiere of "Pretty Woman," the blockbuster romantic comedy that made Roberts a bona fide star. Even more shocking: Many of the 1990 film's ensembles still look remarkably chic! It's hard to pick a favorite, but we adored the gorgeous red off-the-shoulder gown she wore the night that Edward (Richard Gere) took her to the opera.
See all of Julia Roberts's most memorable looks
The Costume Institute Gala She co-hosted the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute Gala in 2008. The theme that year was "Superheroes: Fashion and Fantasy," but the actress wisely steered clear of playing overt homage to Wonder Woman and the like. Instead, she chose a sparkling silver gown from Giorgio Armani Prive that made her look super-gorgeous.
"Erin Brockovich" Critics -- and fans -- were amazed by Roberts's vulnerable-yet-tough portrayal of a flashy, fed-up single-mom-turned-legal-crusader in 2000's "Erin Brockovich." Of course, the wardrobe -- a series of super-short skirts and low-cut tops that the real Brockovich said were still more conservative than her own clothes -- played a crucial role: The push-up bras and big earrings helped the audience to see Erin, not Julia.
InStyle.com: See Julia Roberts's 25-year transformation
Academy Awards By the time Roberts was collecting her Oscar for "Erin Brockovich" in 2001, she'd ditched the blond hair dye in favor of an utterly classic look: This black-and-white vintage Valentino gown, paired with a smooth updo, made her look like an old-school movie star.
"Duplicity" Roberts played a CIA-agent-turned-corporate-spy opposite Clive Owen in this 2009 romp. And, of course, she had all the usual accoutrements -- including dark sunglasses and a black trench -- but we loved this romantic V-neck print dress she wore while shooting in Rome, Italy.
InStyle.com: Eat, Pray, Love's costume designer dishes
Academy Awards Roberts positively glowed at the 2004 Academy Awards in stunning, champagne-colored Giorgio Armani gown. Like many of the star's red carpet favorites, it managed to be formal yet breezy. As the designer himself said, "Julia is modern, confident, and extremely attractive. With that one-of-a-kind smile, she captures your heart."
"Mona Lisa Smile" Roberts went retro for this 2003 film, which was set exactly half-a-century earlier. She played a free-thinking art history professor at traditional Wellesley college; naturally, then, she accented a simple plaid shirtdress with an offbeat turquoise-studded belt.
"Duplicity" premiere At the Paris premiere of this 2009 film, Roberts chose a flattering, head-to-toe Lanvin look. The black silk crepe cross-front gown was easygoing yet evening-appropriate, and the super-sparkly crystal-accented pumps added a dose of movie-star glamour.
InStyle.com: Julia Roberts's workout--no gym required!
"Ocean's Eleven" She was bound to stand out in the 2001 remake of "Ocean's Eleven" -- after all, Roberts was the only woman in a cast packed with Hollywood's hottest leading men (including George Clooney, Brad Pitt and Matt Damon). And indeed, as a cool Las Vegas art expert, she practically glittered: The elegant updo and sparkling ensemble were, like her character, totally put-together and utterly controlled.
"Notting Hill" premiere Her role in the 1999 romantic comedy "Notting Hill" wasn't exactly a stretch: She played Anna Scott, the biggest movie star in the world. But the vibrant Vivienne Tam sheath that she chose for the film's premiere was slightly out of character for the star. Still, it looked fantastic set off with red lipstick and nails and black accessories.
To see our complete list of Julia Roberts's most memorable looks, visit InStyle.com now!
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2010 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
