(CNN Student News) -- February 17, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Afghanistan • Iran
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: This Wednesday, February 17th, CNN Student News begins with a big story out of southeast Asia. I'm Carl Azuz, reporting from the CNN Center in Atlanta!
First Up: Taliban Leader Arrested
AZUZ: First up: What could be a major defeat for the Taliban. Pakistani officials say the Taliban's second-highest leader has been arrested.
Details, right after some fast facts on the Taliban: This is a militant organization that used to control Afghanistan. It allowed the al Qaeda terrorist group to live and train there. A U.S. led coalition knocked the Taliban out of power in late 2001, after the September 11th attacks on America.
Now, Pakistani intelligence says Taliban leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar was caught several days ago in Pakistan, which borders eastern Afghanistan. Baradar's capture could be a huge victory for the U.S. because America has been hunting him for years and he could have some incredibly valuable information about both the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists. American officials are saying this could be a turning point in the war in Afghanistan. But there is a hitch: the Taliban deny that Baradar's been caught. They say he's still working for them and that reports of his arrest are designed to hurt the Taliban's morale. That is important to them right now because America, along with other coalition forces, are currently fighting the Taliban in southern Afghanistan. In the town of Marjah, a stronghold of the Taliban, U.S.-led forces are making progress. Marines took over a police headquarters there yesterday.
New Nuclear Power Plant
U.S. PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: We are announcing roughly $8 billion in loan guarantees to break ground on the first new nuclear plant in our country in three decades.
AZUZ: And it would be an expansion of this nuclear facility in the eastern part of Georgia. The Obama administration claims the two, new nuclear reactors would create more than 3,000 construction jobs and 850 permanent jobs at the nuclear plant. The White House also says the power it would generate would be enough for more than half a million homes. Republican leaders, including both of Georgia's senators, like this idea. Sen. Saxby Chambliss says it's a step in the right direction, adding, the power generated by the Burke County Facility -- that's the one that's already there -- is safe, reliable, emissions-free and environmentally responsible. But some Democrats are against it, along with nuclear power critics. One of those, energy analyst Ben Schreiber, says, "The last thing Americans want is another government bailout for a failing industry." Schreiber went on to call nuclear power "unsafe and dirty."
Iran's Warning
AZUZ: Iran's nuclear plan is worrying diplomats at the United Nations. And Iran's leader is warning the U.N. Security Council not to punish his Middle Eastern nation for its nuclear program. At a news conference yesterday, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said he wants the U.N. to "move in the spirit of cooperation." But if it doesn't, he says Iran would react in a way that would put the U.N. to shame. To the international community, those are very unwelcome words. The U.N. wants Iran to stop enriching uranium, because enriched uranium could help Iran make an illegal, nuclear weapon. Iran continues to argue its program would be used only to help provide power to civilians. The global community doesn't believe it.
Cybersecurity
AZUZ: There are attacks going on in the U.S. that most people never hear about probably because most of the time, they fail. We're talking about cyber attacks. And many times, they come from other countries, testing our electronic systems -- they might target cell phone companies, power companies, Internet companies. Yesterday, a panel of former government workers got together in a cyber-attack drill to work on ways the U.S. could react to a large-scale, cyber attack. What they hope to get out of this are ideas: suggestions they could take to the Obama administration on how to improve the electronic systems that so many of us rely on day-to-day.
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to the students of Pikeville High School in Pikeville, Kentucky! Which of these rulers was known as "the boy king"? You know what do to! Was it: A) King Henry VIII, B) Genghis Khan, C) Alexander the Great OR D) King Tut? You've got three seconds--GO! The ancient Egyptian King Tutankhamen is "the boy king"; he took over at around age 10. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
King Tut Findings
AZUZ: So we know he was young when he took over, that he died young in his late teens, and that King Tut ruled for about 10 years, starting in around 1336 B.C. But there is so much more we do not know, like how he died. Well, there's a new report out, based on King Tut's DNA. It's being published this week in the Journal of the American Medical Association and it could fill in some blanks. The report suggests that the boy king died of complications from a broken leg along with malaria, a disease of flu-like symptoms carried by mosquitos. He also had a form of scoliosis and foot disease: health problems that researchers believe ran in his family.
Hip-Hop Orchestra
AZUZ: Hip-hop and classical: Two musical genres that don't seem to go together. But the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra and hip-hop artist A. Leon Craft mixed it up recently. It's part of the orchestra's work to promote the arts in school curriculum as well as try something new and novel. Take a listen. Hear for yourself how it came together and how it sounded.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The Atlanta Symphony Orchestra.
"808 BLAKE" GERMAN, SMKA PRODUCTIONS: Classical music, it gets kind of the rap that it's, you know, old-timey and boring and that it's for an older generation. It's really the basis of how a lot of the music today is put together. The chance to work for a symphony to me is extraordinary.
A. LEON CRAFT, RAPPER [RAPPING]: Use it to escape....
JERE FLINT, CONDUCTOR, ATLANTA SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA: Well, I think this is our first venture into hip-hop. By blending the two, I think that we reach really a kind of a broad expansive of audiences. We took basically a sampling of a piece.
GERMAN: Gave me "Hoe-Down" by Copeland. I took the sample and I slowed it down, which kind of gave it this sort of feel right here. And I took it, chopped it up, and kind of looped it again, and then I added a second part right here. I usually start layering it with instrumentation, so, and the guitar kind of gives it that laid-back, just good-feeling vibe to it. As is with hip-hop, you know, you've got to have, this is the, that snap is what, the fact that it kind of gets you really bobbing your head. Kind of really feeling the music right there. What really drives it is this. Once we got the music together, then we brought in A. Leon Craft to do, to bring in and do the lyrics for us.
CRAFT [RAPPING]: Music, yes, feel good, music.
CRAFT: The hood goes, music is my life.
GROUP [SINGING]: Music is my life.
CRAFT [RAPPING]: The base clef and treble clef carries me away.
CRAFT: I'm, like, I'm lost in the music.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE [SINGING]: On a beat like maestro.
CRAFT [SINGING]: Music is my life.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE [SINGING]: It's with me everywhere. It's in my soul.
CRAFT [RAPPING]: Music, yes, feel good music. So I got to make you feel good.
CRAFT: I'm singing and rapping in front of the orchestra while, you know, the conductor is conducting the music, like, it's, wow.
CRAFT [RAPPING]: Whether you appreciate my musical past. Everything in life has a rhythm, has emotion. Through emotion music will infinitely last.
FLINT: It was just fascinating. A fascinating piece of work. Whether it's, whether it will last as a real art form or genre or just as an experiment, I can't tell. But it was fun to do it.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was very fun. I am, I'm a big fan of hip-hop. I like to dance a lot.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Very fun. I really enjoyed it.
CRAFT [RAPPING]: Oh how I love my music
CRAFT: Thank you so much.
(END VIDEO)
Promo
AZUZ: Facebook, tomorrow, 7:00 p.m. Eastern, 4:00 p.m. Pacific: Be there. I will be live at Facebook.com/CNNStudentNews, answering your questions. They could be questions for me, questions about the show. You know where to find us: Facebook.com/CNNStudentNews.
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go, picture an igloo. Maybe one of those domed rooms of ice blocks with a little crawl space to get inside. Now picture a luxury igloo. Because what else would you call a spacious, four-room, iced house wired for a sound system, fired for warmth with a wheelbarrow, and, oh yes, a flat-screen TV. It's taken since about New Year's to finish the thing, but it's no doubt the coolest home you'll ever see.
Goodbye
AZUZ: ...though to live there, you'd have to be an ig-lunatic. I can see your class from here, and I can feel your cold stares. Hopefully, you'll warm back up to us by tomorrow. I'm Carl Azuz for CNN Student News.
