Britain's Andy Murray began his clay court campaign with an impressive straight sets win over Serbia's Viktor Troicki at the Monte Carlo Masters Tuesday.
The world number four was the first of the big name seeds in action in the principality and wasted little time in dispatching Troicki 6-0 6-3 in a second round match.
Murray reached the semifinals of the Masters 1000 tournament last year and the French Open, beaten on both occasions by the 'king of clay' Rafael Nadal.
Troicki was able to muster little in the way of opposition and was whitewashed in a one-sided opening set.
He was able to hold his service at the start of the second, but Murray broke again to edge ahead and a second break at 5-3 saw him close out victory in 67 minutes.
The third seed, who is sporting a new close crop haircut, will meet either Julien Benneteau or Jurgen Melzer in the next round.
"It was good. I moved well," said Murray.
"I was sliding pretty well on the court. Normally that's the thing that takes time to get used to. Normally for me that's a good sign on the clay, whether I'm playing well or not," he told the official ATP Tour website.
Fourth seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga celebrated his 27th birthday with a 6-2 6-4 win over Germany's Philipp Kohlschreiber in their second round match.
The Frenchman was earning a tough third round clash against 13th-seeded Spaniard Fernando Verdasco, who recovered from a set down to beat Ivan Dodig of Croatia 3-6 6-3 6-1.
Dodig had brought down the curtain on the career of his compatriot Ivan Ljubicic Sunday with a straight sets win in their first round match.
In first round action, Switzerland's Stanislas Wawrinka shocked 10th seed Feliciano Lopez of Spain 6-1 6-4, while Andreas Seppi of Italy beat Romania's Victor Hanescu 6-3 6-1 to set up a meeting with Novak Djokovic.
World number one Djokovic is hoping to end Nadal's seven-year winning run in Monte Carlo having sat out the tournament last year.
Both will be in action Wednesday with Nadal opening against Finn Jarkko Nieminen.
