(CNN Student News) -- September 6, 2013
On Friday's show, CNN Student News explains what the G-20 summit is and what kind of drama could be looming on the sidelines. We'll also update our audience on the battle for the bones of a king who died in battle, and we'll introduce a CNN Hero whose vision is helping other people see.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might news organizations from various countries cover the G-20 meeting of world leaders differently?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What country hosted this week's G-20 annual meeting of world leaders?
2. What cell phone company is Microsoft buying for more than $7 billion?
3. Which of these is a member of the order Cetacea: dolphins, hedgehogs, or shrimp?
4. On what massive island did scientists recently discover a canyon that is longer than the Grand Canyon?
5. Who is the current speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives?
6. What is measured in millisieverts?
7. Who set a world record for an uncaged swim from Havana, Cuba to Key West, Florida?
8. Who is the current U.S. Senate majority leader?
9. What is the Jewish new year called?
10. Two cities are fighting for the skeletal remains of which English king?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Europe
St. Petersburg, Russia
Leicester, England; York, England
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
