(PEOPLE.com) -- Katy Perry's parents, who are evangelical ministers, mentioned their famous daughter a number of times at religious services in Ohio on Wednesday, but sidestepped the issue of her divorce from Russell Brand.
Keith and Mary Hudson, who arrived at Church on the Rise in Westlake, outside Cleveland, to host two nights of "prophetic services," said they attend Perry's concerts even though they don't love the idea of people worshiping pop idols.
"I only go for one reason and one reason only ... because I love my daughter and I will always love her," Keith Hudson said.
"It was almost like church," he added of the concert experience, adding that Perry's fans "want to worship and they want to love, they are just worshiping and loving the wrong person."
The Hudsons billed themselves as "Katy Perry's parents" on marketing materials for the event, but then told the crowd of about 300 that they don't need help from anyone famous -- or their relatives -- to find God.
"I'm sure that Katy's trending on the Internet was to get you here to church tonight," Mary Hudson said in her opening remarks.
"You don't need a verse or a scripture. You don't need Katy Perry's father," Keith said later. "In the news they call us, 'Katy Perry's parents are religious.' Do I look religious?"
Keith, who did most of the speaking, said he converted from a drug user to a Christian when he was 24 years old. He touched on the evolution of church, developing a relationship with Jesus, and keeping a relationship with one's children.
"What has taken place in my daughter's life has opened many opportunities to go in and be with guarded and gated people," he said. "They like us because we're cool. We are not threatening."
He added: "The most important people on this Earth are your family. What would heaven be like without your children?"
At the end, the Hudsons signed books, sold jewelry to fund a women's mission, and gave away samples of Katy's perfume, Purr.
See the full article at PEOPLE.com.
© 2011 People and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
