Severe weather turned deadly Wednesday night in north Texas. Officials say at least 10 tornadoes touched down, leaving at least six people dead and more than 100 injured in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. If you are looking for missing loved ones, you can call 817-579-2888 to get info from Lake Granbury Hospital.
One of the hardest hit areas was a community of homes built by Habitat for Humanity in Granbury, Texas. Most of the 110 homes in that neighborhood are completely destroyed. This is a community that will need help to recover from this devastation. The Hood County Sheriff's Office urges people wishing to volunteer to report to the First United Methodist Church, 301 Loop 567 in Granbury.
Several groups are in Hood County getting the effort started.
The Red Cross
The Red Cross is on the scene and providing shelter for those who need it. It has opened two shelters in Hood County and you can find their locations here. The Red Cross is not collecting items but encourages monetary donations at this time. You can use the Red Cross' Safe and Well site to alert your loved ones that you are safe or if you are concerned about someone you can't reach.
The Salvation Army
The Salvation Army went into action Wednesday night, deploying three Disaster Canteen mobile kitchens to the area, with two more on standby. These canteens provide food as well as emotional and spiritual support for the residents and first responders affected by the storm.
The Humane Society of North Texas
When homes are lost, families are displaced, including pets. And when there are only moments to get to safety, pets can become separated from their owners in the chaos. The Humane Society of North Texas is bringing a trailer to the area to help with animal control and displaced animals.
Habitat for Humanity
Many of these homes were built by Habitat for Humanity and the Dallas chapter has vowed to stand by the families of Grandbury. They are assessing the damage and will respond accordingly when needs are determined. In the meantime they will welcome and encourage donations on behalf of the rebuilding effort and will have volunteer opportunities listed on their site soon.
