A man was arrested and charged in Thursday's deadly armored car robbery in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, police said Saturday.
Bank surveillance video shows a gunman in a yellow cap firing at armored-car guards.
Mustafa Ali, 36, was charged with two counts of murder, robbery and other related offenses in the shooting deaths of two Loomis armored car guards and theft of cash at a bank ATM.
Ali was picked up on Friday and questioned overnight before he was charged.
Ali, who is not expected to get bail, was to have a preliminary arraignment within 24 hours. Police also seized his vehicle.
The victims were identified as retired police officers Joseph Alullo, 50, and William Widmaier, 65. Each had more than 20 years on the force. Alullo retired in 2003 and Widmaier retired in 1999.
A third guard was wounded in the robbery.
The gunman took an undetermined amount of money, police said. They were searching for a man who fled the scene dressed in a black shirt and blue jeans with a yellow cap and traveling in a black Acura TL with tinted windows and a sunroof.
The guards were attacked shortly after 8 a.m. as they were servicing an ATM outside a Wachovia Bank branch near Roosevelt Mall in northeast Philadelphia, police said. The gunman fired at two guards who were outside the armored car and at the third guard, who was inside.  Watch video images of the gunman at the scene »
The third guard was hurt by flying glass when a bullet shattered one of the vehicle's windows, said Mark Clark, a spokesman for Loomis, the company that owns the armored car.
Police said they found an empty black duffel bag behind an off-track betting parlor near the scene of the crime that may have been taken from the armored car after the shootings.
Several elementary schools in the area were briefly locked down after the incident. The nearby Roosevelt Mall was also shut.
The bank branch is located near entrances to I-95 and I-76, either of which, police said, could have served as an escape route.
Police were reviewing security tapes from the bank's cameras. E-mail to a friend
