Michel Platini has positioned himself for a future tilt at the FIFA presidency by claiming that world soccer's ruling body needs to be run by sporting specialists rather than administrators such as the incumbent Sepp Blatter.
Platini, one of France's greatest players, has backed the 75-year-old Blatter to be re-elected next week if he is not found guilty of corruption at a hearing on Sunday.
"Of course I support him. But we will see. If these allegations are proved, I can't support him anymore," he told CNN World Sport's Pedro Pinto on Saturday.
"I don't know what the disciplinary will say. But I will support him."
FIFA includes Blatter in bribery probe
Platini, also a FIFA vice-president as well as being head of European football at UEFA, said the ruling body needed to follow the example of the International Olympic Committee.
"I think that FIFA is like the IOC was some years ago, I think we are at the end of a system based on politics," the 55-year-old said.
"The future of this big international sports company is owned by people who are specialists -- not political people like you have Mr. Juan Antonio Samaranch in the IOC, Mr. Havelange, Mr. Blatter who comes from politics, and you have many companies like that in sport.
"I think it will finish in the next few years and we will have people from the sport. I think FIFA has to come back to football."
FIFA to investigate new bribery allegations
Blatter's bid for a fourth and final term is in doubt after the Swiss was summoned to a hearing by the FIFA ethics committee following a request by his only opponent at the June 1 election, Mohamed Bin Hammam.
Bin Hammam himself faces an investigation along with FIFA vice-president Jack Warner after a report by colleague Chuck Blazer indicated they had offered cash payments to delegates at a Caribbean Football Union meeting this month in return for voting for the Qatari on Wednesday.
Bin Hammam, head of the Asian Football Confederation, claimed that Blatter would have known about any such payments and therefore should have reported them himself.
There have also been claims that Qatar bribed voters to win the right to host the 2022 World Cup last December, which Hammam also denied.
Platini said he was surprised that the probe will happen before the election.
"I don't understand why you can't do the election quietly and then you open the case. I know you can say everything, but you need evidence and I have no evidence or nothing," he said.
"We will wait for what the disciplinary committee says and then I don't know what will happen. And I'm like you -- I don't know any more. I'm the vice-president of FIFA but I don't know more what will happen."
