Police trying to identify the badly decomposed body of a woman discovered in an industrial area in Chicago, Illinois, denied Saturday that a blue barrel was located near the remains.
An ambulance and police cars stand by near the location where a woman's body was found in Chicago Friday.
The original mention of a blue container in a statement from Lyons, Illinois, police sparked interest because of the possible tie to Stacy Peterson, 23, who disappeared October 28.
Illinois State Police have named her husband, Drew Peterson, a suspect. They have investigated whether the former Bolingbrook, Illinois, police sergeant removed a blue plastic container from his home the night before his wife was reported missing.
Drew Peterson, 53, has consistently said he believes she ran away with another man.
Chicago Police spokeswoman Monique Bond said on Saturday that  no blue barrel was found near the body.
An environmental surveyor from Lyons, Illinois, who was conducting tests at an industrial site in southwest Chicago found the remains Friday afternoon. Police said he called his supervisors to report he'd seen what appeared to be a human foot and leg.
The body was transported to the Chicago medical examiner's office for autopsy.
A spokesman for the Chicago Police Department said the body appears to be that of a female with reddish-blond hair.
A posting on findstacypeterson.com describes the missing woman's hair as brown.
The body was found about 20 miles from the Petersons' home, where Drew Peterson said he last saw her, CNN's Susan Roesgen reported.
Speaking to Nancy Grace on CNN Headline News, Drew Peterson's attorney, Joel Brodsky, said local authorities have already asked a state task force working on Stacy Peterson's disappearance not to get involved.
"I can tell you, it is not Stacy," Brodsky said. "I can guarantee you that."
Brodsky offered no proof of his assertion.
Drew and Stacy Peterson have been married four years and have two children. Drew has other children from a previous marriage.
Authorities are re-examining the death of Peterson's third wife, Kathleen Savio, who was found dead in a bathtub in 2004.  E-mail to a friend
