Triple world champion Sebastian Vettel has told Formula One drivers who feel unsafe behind the wheel to stay out of the cockpit as the Red Bull driver weighed in on the ongoing tire row.
The Grand Prix Drivers' Association (GPDA) issued a statement Thursday to "express their deepest concerns" after five drivers at last weekend's Brtiish Grand Prix, including Mercedes' race leader Lewis Hamilton, experienced high-speed tire blowouts.
The GPDA has threatened to boycott Sunday's German Grand Prix should a repeat of last weekend's Silverstone race occur, with tire supplier Pirelli responding by modifying its tires with a Kevlar strip to prevent punctures.
CNN's F1 Interactive: German Grand Prix
Germany's Vettel, a world champion in each of the last three years, says it is up to each driver to decide whether they feel comfortable in the cockpit.
"At the end of the day it is an individual decision for each driver about whether you think that it is safe or not," the 26-year-old told Formula One's official website.
"If you feel that the risk is too high, then you should not get into the car. For sure I think that no one could have predicted the Silverstone race to develop like it did, so there is nobody to blame for that.
"The good thing from it was that right after the Silverstone race many people sat together and were looking for a constructive solution, and we arrived here in Germany with a different set of rear tires.
"It was a positive surprise to see that given that small window of time, Pirelli was able to bring a different component, and now we have to see if it works.
"So I think it is very positive that they took the criticism seriously and just decided to make some changes."
Sunday's race represents a home grand prix for Vettel, who celebrated his 26th birthday earlier this week.
"Seeing all the fans that support us German drivers gives me a great feeling," added Vettel, who leads the 2013 drivers' standings by 21 points from Ferrari's Fernando Alonso.
"It is a true privilege to have a home grand prix at all.
"I can still remember coming here and seeing all the Michael Schumacher fans at a time when I wasn't even dreaming of being in Formula One."
"We are very confident that we could win here, but we shall not underestimate our competitors.
"We are not putting ourselves under too much pressure though, as there is no way of forcing a win here or indeed anywhere else."
Elsewhere in motorsport, it was announced that Argentina will host a round of the MotoGP world championships for the first time since 1999.
The South American country will host elite motorcycling racing at the newly-built Termas de Rio Honda circuit on a three-year deal starting from next season.
"It is a great honor to receive this championship in Argentina in addition to other sporting events that take place in our country such as the Dakar Rally," Argentine National Tourism Minister Enrique Meyer told MotoGP's official website.
"We hope that the Argentine public can enjoy the top class of motorcycle racing, which hasn't come to our country since 1999, and we will do our best to make sure MotoGP stays in our country for a long time."
