Police on Tuesday scoured the area in Detroit where Bianca Jones was last reported seen, searching for any signs of the missing 2-year-old girl.
Bianca was reportedly traveling with her father in a 2004 silver Mercury Grand Marquis on Friday when they were carjacked, said Sgt. Eren Stephens, a spokeswoman with Detroit police.
"The suspect took off in the car with her in it," she said, citing what the father told authorities.
The vehicle was subsequently recovered, but the girl remains missing.
However, Detroit Police Chief Ralph Godbee Jr. said in a statement over the weekend that the "authenticity and credibility of the original version of events is under intense scrutiny by our investigative team," seeming to suggest that police do not believe what the father told them happened.
"At this time, we're looking at everything," Stephens said.
Bianca is described as African-American, 2 feet, 5 inches tall, 25 pounds, with brown hair and brown eyes. She was last seen wearing a pink dress, pink tights, pink shoes and a purple coat, according to an Amber Alert issued last week by the Michigan State Police.
Her father, D'Andre Lane, spoke to HLN's Nancy Grace on Tuesday night, begging whoever took his daughter to bring her back.
"I don't care about anything else that's going on right now but my daughter's safe return home to her family," he said. "I just want my daughter back home."
Lane appeared alongside his attorney, Terry L. Johnson, who said his client gave police permission to enter his home and has fully cooperated in the investigation.
Stephens declined to say whether police have searched Lane's house.
"My daughter is a beautiful little girl. She has a bright personality. She's the type of person that lights up a room when she walks in it. She's very intelligent," Lane told HLN's Grace. "She's just a wonderful little girl to be around."
About 150 volunteers turned out on Monday to help look for Bianca, said Stephens, who also declined to comment on whether they or police had found anything useful.
She urged anyone with information on the possible whereabouts of the little girl to contact Detroit police.
