"I'm 6-feet, 3-inches tall and 230 pounds, just like Rodney King. Do I scare you?"
Sen. Cory Booker, D-New Jersey, posted a photograph Wednesday of a column he wrote after the brutal 1992 beating of Rodney King, an African-American, and subsequent acquittal of the accused police officers, who were all white. In the newspaper essay, Booker -- one of two African-Americans currently serving in the Senate -- blends his own first-person experience and that of King into a stream-of-consciousness column analyzing American race relations.
The tweet was in response to a disheartened tweet from a follower in response to the events surrounding Michael Brown's death in Ferguson, Missouri.
Booker responded by saying, "Diana, I wrote this at 22. I remember how angry I was. And yes it was more than that. It was pain/hurt. @Diana_Denis," along with the attached image of a yellowed newspaper column.
The column is rife with emotions that range from "rage" to "sadness" as he describes a recent memory of being racially profiled one evening as he was driving. Quickly, his experience escalates into one that many young black men in America are familiar with: five police cars surrounded him, six officers approached him with guns drawn and demanded to see his documents. Why was he pulled over, in his telling? "Oh, you fit the description of a car thief."
Booker had just graduated from Stanford and was awarded the prestigious Rhodes Scholarship at the time of the incident.
He goes on to liken himself to King's physical stature, which is also fairly close to the 6-foot, 4-inch, nearly 300 pound frame of Brown, the unarmed black teenager shot and killed by white police officer Darren Wilson.
"Am I a threat? Does your fear justify your actions? Twelve people believed it did," Booker wrote.
Similarly to recent events in Ferguson, the National Guard was called into Los Angeles to quell the riots in 1992.
"If I were the powers that be, it would not have taken me three days to call the National Guard," young Booker writes.
He finishes the piece, written with shaky hands, by saying, "Dear God.... help us to help ourselves before we become our own undoing."
Booker is already known for his rapid-fire use of the social media site to address constituent concerns and trolls alike, and used the opportunity to discuss what he calls "transformational criminal justice reform & drug policy reform," which he plans to lead with Sen. Rand Paul, R-Kentucky.
