(CNN)Ivory Coast reached the quarterfinals of the 2015 African Cup of Nations with a narrow victory over Cameroon -- but Guinea and Mali now face a drawing of lots on Thursday.
The two teams drew 1-1 in Mongomo and cannot be separated by their head-to-head records, goal difference or goals scored.
Instead, a random draw will decide which team goes through to play Ghana on Sunday.
All four teams could have faced the drawing of lots had there been no winners from the group's final two games.
The last time lots were drawn at the Cup of Nations was in 1988, when Algeria went through at the expense of Ivory Coast.
In Malabo, Max Gradel's goal ensured the Elephants did not suffer the same fate this year.
The Saint-Etienne forward guided Ivory Coast past Cameroon with a 20-yard first-half strike that evaded goalkeeper Fabrice Ondoa.
Cameroon coach Volker Finke, criticized for his selection of inexperienced players at the tournament, threw on Lyon striker Clinton N'Jie in a bid to wrest control of the game.
But Ivory Coast should have had a second through Wilfried Bony and go through as group winners to face Algeria in the last eight -- perhaps to the frustration of Premier League managers, with stars like Bony, Yaya Toure, Kolo Toure and Cheick Tiote still wrapped up in the Cup.
Algeria now represents one of the competition's toughest tests for a generation of Ivory Coast players who have failed to deliver a major trophy despite their promise -- coming only as close as the final of the 2012 Cup of Nations final in 2012, where they lost to Zambia.
Guinea and Mali will become the first teams to draw lots at the Cup of Nations for 27 years after a game dominated by back-to-back penalties.
Kevin Constant chipped home from the spot to put Guinea ahead in the 15th minute, after Mali's Salif Coulibaly had headed the ball onto his own hand.
Mali could have been level instantly as referee Mohamed Said Kordi immediately awarded a second penalty at the other end, but Seydou Keita's tame effort was easily saved.
Mali's Modibo Maiga found an equalizer as both teams struggled to control themselves -- and the ball -- in a frenetic encounter not helped by a bobbling surface.
Maiga, on loan at Metz from West Ham, headed in from the back post early in the second half, but Mali could not find a second goal despite a succession of opportunities.
Ten of the 24 Cup of Nations games played to date at this tournament have now ended 1-1.
