With four home-based major champions in the Irish Open field, Indian golfer Jeev Milkha Singh stole the show in Thursday's opening round with a dazzling round of 63.
The 39-year-old's eight-under-par effort was six shots better than British Open winner Darren Clarke, seven ahead of U.S. Open victor Rory McIlroy and nine clear of the young Northern Irishman's 2010 predecessor Graeme McDowell.
Dubliner Padraig Harrington, who kickstarted Ireland's golfing success with three major victories in 2007-08, was 10 shots behind Singh at Killarney.
Singh, a three-time winner on the European Tour, carded six birdies and an eagle as he equaled the best score of his career to end the day two shots clear of France's world No. 546 Alexandre Kaleka -- who birdied five holes in a row from the 12th.
Clarke dreaming of Open double
"I don't know whether it was a good thing or a bad thing, but 59 did cross my mind," said Singh, whose sixth place at last weekend's Scandinavian Masters was his best after two years of injuries sent him tumbling outside the top-200.
Former U.S. Open champion Michael Campbell was a surprise sight near the top of the leaderboard, with the New Zealander -- now ranked 701st -- tied for third with Germany's Marcel Siem and Sweden's Christian Nilsson on 66.
The 42-year-old Clarke is under the weather after admittedly over-celebrating his first major title at Royal St. George's on July 17.
"I didn't come here to make up the numbers. I hit a lot of good shots and had lots of chances, but didn't quite have the speed of the greens," he said after his four-birdie 69.
McIlroy led by two shots early in the day but closed with a double-bogey after hitting the water at 18 to sign for a 70, while McDowell and last year's runner-up Harrington both struggled after missing the cut in Sandwich.
Defending champion Ross Fisher was in a big group tied for sixth on 67.
Meanwhile, South Korea's Meena Lee claimed the first-round lead at the Women's British Open after carding a seven-under 65 in wet conditions in Scotland on Thursday.
The 29-year-old fired seven birdies at Carnoustie to be two shots clear of American Brittany Lincicome and three ahead of her compatriot Amy Yang, Germany's Caroline Masson, Sweden's former champion Sophie Gustafson and U.S. player Angela Stanford.
In a tie for seventh place on 69 were Caroline Hedwall, Momoko Ueda, Na Yeong Choi, Amy Hung, Song-Hee Kim, Lorie Kane, Paula Creamer and Mika Miyazato.
