The man who has gone over the bidding process for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups with a fine tooth comb wants FIFA to make his report public.
Michael Garcia's stance puts him at odds with soccer's world governing body which has insisted the 250-page report should be kept private.
The American lawyer gave the report to FIFA's ethics chief Hans-Joachim Eckert earlier this month.
"Given the limited role Mr Hans-Joachim Eckert envisions for the Adjudicatory Chamber, I believe it is now necessary for the FIFA Executive Committee to authorize the appropriate publication of the report on the inquiry into the 2018/2022 FIFA World Cup bidding process," Garcia said in a statement.
"Publication would be consistent with statements made by a number of Executive Committee members, with the view recently expressed by Independent Governance Committee Chair Mark Pieth, and with the goals of the reform process."
Garcia's statement was released ahead of a two-day FIFA executive committee meeting in Zurich, which begins Thursday.
FIFA was not immediately available for comment when asked for a response to Garcia's desire for the report to be made public.
The 2018 World Cup was awarded to Russia while the 2022 tournament will be staged in Qatar.
Last week FIFA president Sepp Blatter tweeted: "Everyone in the global football community has a responsibility to act ethically. Football fans rightly demand this. FIFA has taken the lead."
However, one of the criticisms leveled at FIFA is that the organization is not transparent enough and "reform" will not take place without greater transparency.
Some FIFA officials, notably vice-presidents Jim Boyce of Northern Ireland and Jeffrey Webb of the Cayman Islands, as well as executive committee members Moya Dodd of Australia and Prince Ali Bin Al-Hussein of Jordan, have all demanded Garcia's report to be made public.
For the last four years Qatar's successful bid has been dogged by controversy.
Issues relating to the feasibility of playing in scorching summer temperatures, the conditions of migrant workers building World Cup infrastructure and allegations of bribery and corruption have all been raised.
British newspaper The Sunday Times has published a number of stories into the bidding process for the two World Cups and in one story claimed a Qatari official paid more than $5 million to secure support for his country's bid.
Qatar has said it provided full cooperation to Garcia and has also said that it won the bid fairly.
The debate has also raised questions about whether Qatar could lose the 2022 tournament and, if it did hold the event, at which time of the year it should be played.
Some like UEFA boss, Michel Platini, believe a re-vote is necessary if corruption accusations are proven.
