Zsa Zsa Gabor's recovery from hip replacement surgery last month has been slower than predicted, but her daughter disputed a report that the actress "suffered a setback" Saturday.
"She is no different than she was from yesterday or the day before," Francesca Hilton, who was at her mother's hospital bedside, said Saturday. She was awake watching TV and eating, Hilton said.
Gabor's husband, meanwhile, told CNN that she "went into shock" Saturday morning, delaying her release from Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center that had been planned for this weekend.
The 93-year-old actress is now expected to go to her Bel Air, California, home Monday, Prince Frederic Von Anhalt said.
Von Anhalt said Hilton would not know of her mother's condition because he has told doctors not to talk to her.
The stepfather and stepdaughter have had a cold relationship in recent years that included a legal fight over a mortgage on Gabor's Bel Air mansion.
The German prince, 67, married Gabor 24 years ago.
Francesca Hilton, 64, is Gabor's only child, the product of her second marriage to hotel magnate Conrad Hilton.
Gabor, who suffered a broken hip in a fall from her bed July 17, underwent surgery July 19. Von Anhalt initially predicted she would leave the hospital just a few days after the surgery.
Gabor's fall happened as she reached to answer the phone while watching the television game show "Jeopardy," which is "a must-see show" for the actress, her husband said.
Gabor has been frail and "pretty much confined to a wheelchair" since a 2002 car accident, he said. The crash occurred when the car in which she was riding with her hairdresser slammed into a light pole on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles.
The glamorous Hungarian-born actress, the second of the three celebrated Gabor sisters, is most famous for her many marriages. Among her other husbands was Oscar-winning actor George Sanders.
Her more prominent films include John Huston's 1952 Toulouse-Lautrec biopic, "Moulin Rouge;" "The Story of Three Loves," 1953; "The Girl in the Kremlin," 1957; and Orson Welles' classic "Touch of Evil," 1958.
In 1989, Gabor was sentenced to 72 hours in jail for slapping a Beverly Hills police officer after a traffic stop. She also had to perform community service at a battered women's shelter.
The other Gabor sisters were Magda, the oldest, who died in 1997 five days shy of 83, and Eva, the youngest, who died in 1995 at 76.
Magda, an occasional stage actress, also was married to Sanders at one time.
Eva is probably best remembered for her role as a socialite turned farmer's wife on the 1960s TV sitcom "Green Acres."
