[Breaking news update at 12:35 a.m. Friday]
A biker was indicted Thursday night in connection with the clash with a New York SUV driver, according to the Manhattan District Attorney's office. Officials did not release what charges Robert Sims was indicted on. He is the only one of seven charged who has been indicted.
[Originial story posted at 10:44 p.m.]
Seventh biker charged in SUV attack
(CNN) -- Another biker was charged Thursday in connection with a September 29 attack on an SUV driver in New York City.
James Kuehne, a 31-year-old Brooklyn resident, pleaded not guilty to gang assault, assault and criminal mischief charges.
He was released on $200,000 bond.
Counting Kuehne, seven people have now been charged in the incident, including an off-duty police officer.
Authorities, who have appealed for the public's help in identifying people in photos, haven't ruled out more arrests or charges.
The incident was sure to get attention, taking place on one of the busiest roads in one of America's busiest cities.
But the story caught on even more after video of the episode went viral.
According to Assistant District Attorney Samantha Turino, motorcyclists heading north on Manhattan's West Side Highway "were driving recklessly, ... obstructing vehicle traffic, running red lights, swerving between lanes" when one of them, later identified as Christopher Cruz, quickly slowed down in front of SUV driver Alexian Lien.
Lien's vehicle bumped Cruz's rear tire, slightly injuring him.
The Range Rover then pulled to a stop, at which point angry bikers surrounded his vehicle, hit it and spiked its tires, police said.
Lien's vehicle then began moving again, plowing into three more bikers, including Edwin Mieses, whose wife, Dayana Mieses, said earlier this week she has been told there's only a 1% chance he'll walk again.
As it moved away, the SUV was chased by motorcyclists, who caught up with it near the George Washington Bridge. Several bikers dismounted and approached the vehicle, with one of them opening its door, before Lien then drove away again.
Motorcyclists continued their pursuit, with some speeding ahead of him to help halt traffic. That's where the ordeal ended, with Lien getting dragged out, kicked and hit.
He suffered cuts to each eye, his right cheek, the left side of his body, and his lip, in addition to a pair of black eyes and abrasions to his hand, back and shoulder, according to Turino.
His wife and 2-year-old daughter were unharmed.
CNN's Susan Candiotti, Vivienne Foley and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
Watch Piers Morgan Live weeknights 9 p.m. ET. For the latest from Piers Morgan click here.
