This month on Inside the Middle East -- Zain Verjee hosts from Doha, Qatar.
Art Treasures Revealed
Ancient art finds a modern home in Doha at the Museum of Islamic Art as it celebrates its first anniversary. From jewelry to textiles to ceramics and metal work, the galleries host an unparalleled collection of artifacts spanning the 7th to the 19th centuries, from Spain to China. The minimal Arabesque cubism design of the building was done by award-winning architect I.M. Pei, famed for his Pyramid at Paris' Louvre Museum. Schams Elwazer takes us inside Doha's cultural landmark.
Campus Forum -- University students share their thoughts
In a region where 60 percent of the population is under 30-years-old, IME is going to universities to gauge the pulse on campuses and to speak to tomorrow's business and industry leaders. On this edition we visit the Virginia Commonwealth University in Qatar and ask design students about their passions, concerns, identity issues, and what it means to be young in the Middle East today.
On campus we also catch up with an industry leader -- architect and humanitarian entrepreneur Cameron Sinclair of Architecture for Humanity and hear his message of global action to young design students.
Your IME Diary
We report from on the ground in Mecca, Saudi Arabia where millions of Muslims gathered for the annual Hajj pilgrimage followed by the celebrations of Eid Al-Adha.
Qatar launched the first annual World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE), hoping to become the educational equivalent of the World Economic Forum, aiming to "create a new international multi-disciplinary platform to shape education models of the 21st century."
In the UAE, the Abu Dhabi Art exhibit brought famous names to its galleries while the Dubai World Championship brought golf stars to its greens.
You can watch Inside the Middle East at the following times in December:
Wednesday 2 December: 0830, 1430, Saturday 5 December 0830, 1700, 2030, Sunday 6 December 0530, 1530, Monday 7 December 0300  (all times GMT)
