Hundreds of family members, friends and neighbors of four of the eight victims of a workplace shooting rampage gathered at funeral services around Manchester, Connecticut, on Saturday to share tears and memories.
The four men who were laid to rest had each worked at Hartford Distributors for around 30 years before Omar Thornton's shooting spree Tuesday, which ended when he took his own life.
"We're a pretty tight neighborhood," said Mary Bey of South Windsor, at the funeral of Craig Pepin, 60, who she described as a "wonderful neighbor and friend and coach and referee."
"He touched so many people's lives in South Windsor ... he was a very unique, kind and wonderful man," she told CNN Connecticut affiliate WTNH.
Bey also knows a Hartford Distributors employee who was injured in the rampage.
"We're very happy he made it through," she said of Steven Hollander, a neighbor who was treated and released from Hartford Hospital.
Besides Pepin, Bryan Cirigliano, 51, Douglas Scruton, 56, and Victor James, who was killed on his 61st birthday, were also buried Saturday.
"We've just had an outpouring of support," James' daughter told WTNH. "And it just felt good to hear the stories and just to see the amount of people that came to see my dad."
Funeral services for two other shooting victims are scheduled for Sunday and Monday, and a candlelight vigil for those killed is scheduled for Sunday evening in Manchester's Center Park.
Connecticut Gov. M. Jodi Rell has called for Monday to be a day of remembrance for the victims, asking state residents to observe a moment of silence at 9:15 a.m.
On Friday, police arrested a woman they said had accepted stolen beer from a delivery truck driven by Thornton.
Hartford Distributors said it had asked Thornton to resign after it found him stealing and selling alcoholic beverages.
Thornton's girlfriend told CNN he was being racially harassed at work, but Hartford Distributors' president said Thursday that there were no grievances filed with the company or with Thornton's union.
