A planned Michael Jackson tribute concert, supported by the late pop star's mother and four siblings, was in disarray Thursday amid family squabbling and the apparent failure of promoters to sign any big-name acts so far.
Tickets for the show, scheduled for Cardiff, Wales, in October, were to go on sale Thursday, but instead of providing a link for purchases the promoter's website asked fans to "Please Standby for further announcements."
The head of the British company promoting the concert promised last week it would "feature the world's most amazing music performers." The roster would be revealed online one act at a time over the next 10 days weeks, Global Live Events CEO Chris Hunt told reporters at a July 25 news conference.
"Everybody's in the midst of signing contracts so nothing can be announced until that happens," Juliette Harris, spokeswoman for Global Live Events, told CNN late Tuesday. She suggested an announcement would come Wednesday.
By Thursday, still no acts had been announced.
The problems started soon after brothers Marlon, Tito and Jackie, sister La Toya and family matriarch Katherine Jackson attended the "Michael Forever: The Tribute Concert" announcement at the Beverly Hills Hotel on July 25.
La Toya Jackson said it was "something that's spectacular" while the Jacksons' mother called it "a show fit for a king."
"If my son were here today, he would feel the same way," Katherine Jackson said.
"I know my brother would be very, very proud to see all the artists that he admired and respected so much coming together for this event," Tito Jackson said.
But an hour later, Jermaine and Randy Jackson, the only brothers not at the news conference, issued a sharply worded statement that reflected a deep division within the Jackson family over the show.
"We want to make clear that this does not reflect the position of the entire family," the two brothers said in a joint statement.
"While we wholeheartedly support the spirit of a tribute that honors our brother, we find it impossible to support an event that is due to take place during the criminal trial surrounding Michael's death."
While Hunt had hinted it could include a Jackson brothers reunion, the statement from Jermaine and Randy Jackson made it clear that would not happen.
"In light of this, we feel it is inappropriate to be involved with such an ill-timed event and its promoter, Global Live," Randy and Jermaine Jackson said.
Their statement said the idea of the October concert was presented to the entire family in April "as an idea already in its advanced stages." The decision to go ahead with it "disrespects opinions and wishes expressed in the strongest terms" by some members of the Jackson family, they said.
The Michael Jackson Fan Club agreed with the two brothers, issuing a similar statement.
"We share their concerns that this concert is taking place at a most inappropriate time when everyone's care and attention should be focused on the matter of justice. We believe that, as stated by Jermaine and Randy, the most important tribute we can give to Michael Jackson at this time is to seek justice in his name."
Jackson fans posted messages on the concert's Facebook page questioning ticket prices and the process for buying them.
Fans must place bids for a chance to buy a ticket. The higher their pledge to a charity, the better their chances of getting a good seat.
"The ticket system is so bad!! the higher you bid the better seats you get?? not every Michael fan is rich!!!" one fan posted on the "Michael Forever Tribute" Facebook page Thursday.
After several days of such negative posts, a link to the Facebook page was removed from the concert's website.
The October 8 show, in the Wales Millennium Centre in Cardiff, which seats 75,000 people, would be at least four hours long, Hunt said.
In addition to the other problems surrounding the event, a spokesman for Michael Jackson's estate said last week that the promoters never sought or obtained permission from the estate's executors to use late pop singer's name or image.
"The estate has not been contacted and is not involved with Global Live Events in the UK tribute concert announced today," spokesman Jim Bates told CNN.
