(CNN Student News) -- November 5, 2013
CNN Student News marks Election Day 2013 with a look at some races and referenda on different state ballots, and we take an early look at the next U.S. presidential election. We also report on statements made by and against Edward Snowden, and we discuss the rarity of last weekend's hybrid solar eclipse. Plus, we examine accusations of player misconduct among some members of an NFL team.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might the media be discussing the 2016 presidential election at this point in time?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. referendum
2. Edward Snowden
3. solar eclipse
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What were some of the electoral events described in today's program?
2. Who is Edward Snowden? Why did he leave the United States?
3. If a solar flare occurs on the sun, about how long would it take to be seen through a telescope on Earth?
Discussion Questions:
1. What qualifications do you look for in a presidential nominee? Do you think that the current poll numbers for likely nominees will change significantly between now and the first presidential primary? Why or why not?
2. What do you think about Edward Snowden's actions? Why do you think that some people see him as a whistleblower, while others see his actions as a threat to national security?
3. How would you characterize alleged misconduct by some members of the Miami Dolphins? Do you think that other teams and levels of the sport (i.e. college, high school) have similar issues? If so, are they out of bounds or just part of the game? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
New Jersey; Virginia; Colorado
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
