DURBAN, South Africa -- India's Yuvraj Singh smashed six sixes in one over as England crashed out of cricket's World Twenty20 tournament in South Africa on Wednesday.
Yuvraj Singh smashes his sixth successive six off England fast bowler Stuart Broad
Paul Collingwood's side were eliminated at the Super Eights stage after South Africa earlier beat New Zealand by six wickets in Durban.
England then lost by 18 runs to the Singh-inspired Indians, who kept their semifinal hopes alive ahead of Thursday's must-win clash with the hosts.
Singh reached the fastest 50 in Twenty20 history, needing just 12 deliveries, as India made 218-4.
The left-hander's six consecutive sixes in the 19th over bowled by Stuart Broad made him the first player to do so in Twenty20 matches and just the fourth in all senior cricket.
South Africa's Herschelle Gibbs performed the feat at the 50-over World Cup in the West Indies earlier this year, while Sir Garfield Sobers and Ravi Shastri achieved it in first-class matches.
Singh's innings ended on 58 -- from 16 balls -- when he hit a full-toss from Andrew Flintoff to captain Collingwood at long-on from the penultimate delivery of the final over, in which he also cleared the boundary ropes once.
Virender Sehwag top-scored with 68 off 52 balls, putting on 136 for the first wicket with Gautam Gambhir, who hit 58 off 41 deliveries.
Broad ended with the embarrassing figures of 0-60 off his four overs, while fellow seamer Chris Tremlett took 2-45.
In reply, England battled gamely but could only post 200-6 in their 20 overs.
Opener Vikram Solanki top-scored with 43 off 31 balls, and Kevin Pietersen hit 39 off 23 deliveries, but no-one could match the fireworks provided by Singh.
Left-arm seamer Irfan Pathan claimed figures of 3-37 off four overs, while Rudra Pratap Singh took 2-28.
If India can beat South Africa, it would create a three-way tie and require net run-rates to decide the two teams going through.
The Proteas have two wins from two Group E outings after beating New Zealand, who have completed their Super Eights fixtures with two victories and a defeat.
South Africa restricted the Black Caps to 153-8 from their 20 overs on Wednesday, then reached the target with five deliveries to spare as Justin Kemp made an unbeaten 89.
Kemp was named man of the match after smashing a six off the otherwise economical Mark Gillespie for the winning runs.
He belted six sixes and six fours in his 56-ball innings, having come to the crease in the fourth over with South Africa reeling at 17-2.
Kemp added 28 in four overs with Gibbs (19) before putting on another 65 in eight overs with Mark Boucher.
Boucher departed for 23, caught by wicketkeeper Brendon McCullum off Gillespie, who ended with figures of 2-11 off 3.1 overs.
The experienced Shaun Pollock then joined Kemp, and struck one six in his unbeaten 16 off 11 deliveries to help guide the Proteas to their second victory.
The in-form Craig McMillan top-scored for the Kiwis, hitting an unbeaten 48 off only 25 balls to follow up his blistering 57 in Tuesday's five-run win against England.
McCullum had put on 68 for the first wicket with Lou Vincent, scoring 38 before becoming the first of Morne Morkel's four victims.
Morkel, who ended with figures of 4-17 off four overs, then removed Ross Taylor (1) two runs later and later bowled the dangerous Jacob Oram for a quickfire 15.
He had Shane Bond caught by Boucher, and then almost became the first Twenty20 bowler to claim five wickets when his penultimate delivery -- which clean bowled Gillespie -- was declared a no-ball by umpire Billy Doctrove.  E-mail to a friend
