(InStyle) -- On August 25th, Claudia Schiffer -- the youngest of the crop of so-called "original supermodels" who made their mark on fashion in the late 1980s and early 1990s -- will turn the big 4-0. To celebrate, InStyle took a look back at the top six, and offers updates as to where they are now.
Claudia Schiffer, 40
Then: Schiffer was only 17 when Karl Lagerfeld enlisted her to model for Chanel; a subsequent ad campaign for Guess played up her resemblance to the actress Brigitte Bardot and turned her into an international star.
Now: The German-born model, who's married to filmmaker Matthew Vaughn (he directed "Kick-Ass"), recently gave birth to her third child and continues to pose part-time for brands like Chanel, Ferragamo, Alberta Ferretti (she's the face of their signature fragrance) and Yves St. Laurent.
See all the original supermodels: then and now
Cindy Crawford, 44
Then: The all-American Crawford appeared on hundreds of magazine covers. She also pitched Pepsi, hosted the MTV series "House of Style," and married the movie star Richard Gere. (They divorced four years later.)
Now: Re-married in 1998 to businessman Rande Gerber, Crawford has launched several successful businesses of her own, including an eponymous Home Collection and a line of anti-aging skincare products called Meaningful Beauty.
Cindy Crawford's secret to feeling sexy
Naomi Campbell, 40
Then: Discovered at 15 while window-shopping in London's Covent Garden, Campbell quickly went from being an in-demand catwalk star to posing for numerous magazine covers, many of which had never before featured a black model. She represented Nars, Ralph Lauren, and Prada, appeared in music videos for Madonna, Michael Jackson, and the Notorious B.I.G., and dated Mike Tyson, Robert DeNiro, and Eric Clapton.
Now: Although plagued by personal scandals, Campbell is still a fashion-world star. Next month, Dolce & Gabbana will celebrate "the 25th anniversary of her career" with a party and limited edition T-shirts (proceeds will benefit her charity, Fashion For Relief.)
10 ways to live like a supermodel
Linda Evangelista, 45
Then: Canadian-born Evangelista got her start when she was spotted by a talent agent at a Miss Teen Niagara pageant in 1978. Ten years later, she lost a number of major runway bookings when she suddenly swapped her then-shoulder-length hair for a boyish, close-cropped style, but her ever-changing 'do eventually became her trademark. A face of Revlon, Donna Karan, and Versace, she famously told a reporter in 1990 that she and her supermodel colleagues "don't get out of bed for less than $10,000 a day."
Now: Evangelista has worked more or less steadily for the last twenty years -- recent gigs include ad campaigns for Prada, Talbots, and John Galliano.
Try on Linda Evangelista's famous crop
Elle Macpherson, 47
Then: A leggy blonde Australian known within the industry as "The Body," Macpherson appeared on the cover of the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue a record five times. She also kept a foot in the high-fashion world, walking runways for designers like Azzedine Alaia and John Galliano.
Now: The model-turned-entrepreneur's signature lingerie line, Elle Macpherson Intimates, is a best-selling success, stocked at Bloomindales, Saks Fifth Avenue, and Neiman Marcus. She's also launched a skincare collection, called (of course) "The Body," and recently became the host of "Britain's Next Top Model." And, in March, she made a triumphant return to the runway, closing Louis Vuitton's buzzed-about Fall 2010 show.
Elle Macpherson's trick to looking great in a bikini
Christy Turlington, 41
Then: A face of Missoni, Valentino, Chanel, Revlon, and Calvin Klein, Turlington starred, alongside Linda, Cindy, and Naomi, in George Michael's model-packed video for "Freedom! 90."
Now: The yoga devotee has launched two active-wear brands, Nuala and Mahnuala, and is a partner in the all-natural ayurvedic skincare line, Sundari. This year, Turlington -- who's married to actor/director Ed Burns -- released a documentary, "No Woman No Cry," about at-risk pregnant women around the world and co-starred with models Karen Elson and Natalia Vodianova in Louis Vuitton's Fall 2010 campaign.
And what about Helena Christensen and the rest of the original supermodels?Find out what they're up to on InStyle.com now!
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
