(CNN Student News) -- September 5, 2013
From Washington to London and Paris to Moscow, governments are debating a similar topic. On Thursday, CNN Student News looks at what's being said about Syria. We also report on a legal question involving the U.S. Pledge of Allegiance, and we discuss the Jewish holiday of Rosh Hashanah. Plus, our Career Connections segment returns with a look at the work of park rangers.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What might be some of the challenges of covering the same news story over several days? What are some ways in which reporters can find new perspectives on long-running news stories?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. red line
2. Pledge of Allegiance
3. Rosh Hashanah
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What country's lawmakers have voted against participating in a strike against Syria?
2. How long has the Rim Fire been burning in California?
3. What are some of the duties and responsibilities of a federal park ranger?
Discussion Questions:
1. How do you think that other countries' concerns regarding Syria might differ from those of the U.S.? How might they be similar? What questions do you still have about the situation in Syria and the international community's debates regarding the Middle Eastern nation?
2. How do you interpret the Pledge of Allegiance? What has shaped your views?
3. What are your thoughts on the advice given by the park rangers in the report? Would you want to be a park ranger? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Yosemite National Park
Kennesaw Mountain
Massachusetts
Europe
Sweden
United Kingdom
France
Russia
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
