Television and YouTube singing sensation Susan Boyle has promised to be on her best behavior if she wins the right to sing for the queen.
Susan Boyle sings "I Dreamed a Dream" -- and becomes a worldwide sensation.
The 47-year-old Boyle, who says she has never been kissed, was catapulted into the spotlight after her rendition of "I Dreamed a Dream" from the musical "Les Miserables," on the television show "Britain's Got Talent" at the weekend.
The winner of the show gets to sing for the queen at the Royal Variety Show.
Boyle has a long way to go though -- having just won through to the second round after judge Simon Cowell described her first performance as "extraordinary."
Still, she was already thinking of how she would behave.
"Whatever comes my way, I am ready. It would be lovely to sing for the queen. There would be less of the carry on from me, and more of the singing.  Watch Boyle tell CNN 'it must have been a miracle' »
"She is a very regal lady, very nice, so I would be nice too, and just get up there and give it a bit of wellie (try)," Boyle told the show's Web site.
Boyle said she was trying to take her new found fame in her stride.
"It's a challenge. Life is a challenge sometimes but this is different. And I like to test myself.
"If it all gets too much and they lock me up, I want a great big strait-jacket with spots on it. A pink one... and a big zip on the back so I can escape."
A clip of Boyle's performance had more than 11 million views on YouTube by Thursday, and the world's media have beaten a path to her door in Blackburn, West Lothian, Scotland. Watch Boyle's singing wow the world »
Cowell is reportedly already trying to piece together a record deal for Boyle, an unemployed charity worker, who lives with her cat, Pebbles.
For fans of Boyle, who attracted laughs and sniggers when she first appeared on stage before winning a standing ovation, the album cannot come quick enough.
CNN has been inundated with hundreds of messages of support for Boyle.
Simone said: "I've been so depressed all day but hearing this woman sing and reading her story gave me a pick-me-up... I look forward to hearing more of her and I hope to buy her CD as soon as it hits the shelves."
Cynthia wanted Cowell to move quickly.
"She brought tears to my eyes and a lump in my throat. I hope Simon does get her a record contract...I'll buy her CD. Never judge a book by it's cover. Susan Boyle, you go, girl!"
Jim described Boyle's talent as "unbelievable" and "beautiful."
"I wish Susan the very best in her new life and hopefully someone has put her under contract. Thank you for such a beautiful song."
Larry wanted to offer Boyle a kiss.
"I have just heard you sing for the first time -- thanks to CNN -- and I must tell you this: You are a fabulous talent, simply amazing to me that no one took advantage of your voice and passion up until now. I am a happily married man, but if I were not, and if I was in the audience, I can guarantee you that I would ask for a kiss, and if you were gracious enough to indulge me, well that would have been one of the great highlights of my life. Looking forward to the first of many albums."
