Unfancied Belarus once again frustrated France in Euro 2012 qualifying action on Friday, earning a 1-1 draw at home to the Group D leaders.
The French won four successive games following September's 1-0 defeat to the East Europeans in Paris, but conceded a goal for the first time since then when defender Eric Abidal put through his own net in the 20th minute under pressure from Maksim Bordachev after a free-kick.
However, Chelsea forward Florent Malouda equalized two minutes later after being set up by Real Madrid striker Karim Benzema as Les Bleus remained four points clear of their second-placed hosts.
Belarus can close the gap by beating bottom nation Luxembourg on Tuesday, while Laurent Blanc's France team face Euro 2012 co-hosts Poland and Ukraine next week.
Romania closed to within a point of Belarus with a 3-0 win at home to Bosnia-Herzegovina, with Adrian Mutu netting the opener and Ciprian Marica scoring twice before Cristian Sapunaru missed a penalty deep into injury-time.
Germany notched a sixth win from six games in Group A as striker Mario Gomez scored both goals in a 2-1 win away to neighbors Austria.
Gomez, the Bundesliga's top scorer last season, scored late in each half with Austria leveling through Arne Friedrich's 50th-minute own goal.
The Bayern Munich star pounced just before the break after clubmate Toni Kroos's corner was flicked on by Friedrich into his path.
Friedrich turned David Alaba's cross  into his own net, but Gomez denied Austria -- seeking a first competitive win over their rivals since the 1978 World Cup -- when he headed in Philipp Lahm's last-minute cross.
That put Joachim Low's team seven points clear of second-placed Belgium ahead of Tuesday's trip to Azerbaijan.
Belgium, who have played an extra game, drew 1-1 with third-placed Turkey as Axel Witsel missed a second-half penalty in Brussels.
Marvin Ogunjimi gave the hosts an early lead before Burak Y?lmaz leveled on 22, but Witsel blazed over the bar with 15 minutes left to keep Turkey's playoff hopes alive with Guus Hiddink's team one point back with a game in hand.
Bottom side Kazakhstan beat Azerbaijan 2-1 in a result that left both nations on three points with one win each.
Italy stayed five points clear in Group C with a 3-0 win at home to Estonia.
Strikers Giuseppe Rossi and Antonio Cassano scored in the first half, while the latter's second-half replacement Giampaolo Pazzini wrapped up the Azzurri's fifth win from six matches.
Second-placed Slovenia won 2-0 away to the Faroe Islands despite having Marko Suler sent off after only 25 minutes, but have played an extra game.
Tim Matavz put the visitors ahead shortly after Suler's red card for a professional foul, adding to his hat-trick in October's home fixture, while Rogvi Baldvinsson headed into his own net just after halftime.
Croatia went top of Group F with a 2-1 win at home to Georgia, moving two points clear of Greece.
Georgia won the reverse fixture in March, and took the lead again through Jaba Kankava in the 17th minute.
But goals from Mario Mandzukic and Nikola Kalinic in the final 15 minutes gave Slaven Bilic's team a welcome win, having earlier hit the woodwork three times.
Greece can reclaim top spot by beating Malta on Saturday.
Sweden boosted their hopes of finishing second in Group E by winning 4-1 away to Moldova, as striker Johan Elmander scored twice.
The second-placed Swedes now trail unbeaten leaders the Netherlands by six points, having played one fewer game.
Finland claimed a second win in five games to be on six points, winning 1-0 away to bottom nation San Marino thanks to striker Mikael Forssell's first-half winner.
Group I's bottom side Liechtenstein picked up a 2-0 win at home to Lithuania for the principality's first points in five games.
