Portugal striker Cristiano Ronaldo has been unveiled as Real Madrid's new number 9, in front of 80,000 passionate fans at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium, after his world record $130 million move from Manchester United.
Cristiano Ronaldo is paraded in front of 80,000 passionate supporters at a packed Bernabeu stadium.
The event marked the culmination of a two-year pursuit of the player by the Spanish club, which defied the global downturn with exorbitant spending to capture the man voted the world's best footballer by world governing body FIFA.
"I have made my childhood dream a reality -- to play for Real Madrid," Ronaldo told the packed stands.
"I am just so happy to be here," he said to a rapturous reception from the gathered thousands. "I really didn't expect a jam-packed stadium -- this is truly impressive."  Watch tens of thousands greet Ronaldo »
Ronaldo is the fourth major signing of the close season by Real, as the club, fueled by the financial muscle of returning president and property magnate Florentino Perez, aims to recapture the glory that has seen them win more European Cups than any other side.
The transfer of Brazil's Kaka and defender Raul Albiol was followed by the arrival of French striker Karim Benzema from Lyon on Thursday, as Perez assembles a second wave of "galacticos," following his previous success with big-names such as David Beckham and Zinedine Zidane.
Benzema's transfer fee is reported to be in the region of $60 million, taking Madrid's spending to an astonishing $300 million this in recent months.
Perez claimed Monday's event "might not have a precedent." "We are very satisfied to know that you made the firm decision to play for Real Madrid," Perez said.
He told Ronaldo what to expect from his new adoring fans, adding: "They will ask of you the very best, but will also give you their all."
The attendance at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium swamped the estimated 55,000 that watched Kaka's unveiling last Tuesday, and is believed to be the biggest turnout for a presentation since a reported 75,000 saw the arrival of Diego Maradona at Napoli from Barcelona in 1984.  Watch fans line up before Ronaldo's unveiling »
Earlier, Ronaldo successfully completed his medical with Madrid after landing in the Spanish capital just after midday.
Carlos Diez, Real Madrid's medical chief, told teh club's Web site: "(Ronaldo) is in perfect condition and very eager to start the season as soon as possible."
Ronaldo had already undergone initial medical tests with the Spanish giants while on holiday in Portugal last month, which the player claimed at the time had gone "perfectly".
Diez added: "He has an extraordinary cardiac and lung capacity. We have complemented everything that we already did in Portugal and done all the specific tests.
"Now we will be able to start working using an individual plan in order to improve his performance. For him (Ronaldo), it's a dream, and this dream starts to convert into reality from now."
The number nine jersey was recently vacated by Argentine striker Javier Saviola who joined Portuguese side Benfica last month.
