(CNN Student News) -- May 22, 2014
President Obama publicly addresses a scandal concerning some Veterans Affairs facilities, but critics say he's not doing enough to solve the growing problem. Meanwhile, dozens of U.S. troops deploy to the nation of Chad, and we take a trip into a Japanese ghost town that was abandoned after a natural disaster. It's all covered this Thursday on CNN Student News.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might knowledge of geography be important to understanding current events?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Department of Veterans Affairs
2. Chad
3. Cesium-137
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Why are 26 Veterans Affairs hospitals being investigated by the U.S. government? How has President Obama responded to this controversy? What do critics say about the president's response?
2. To what central African nation is the president sending 80 U.S. troops? What role will these troops play? Why did the president have to inform Congress of this action?
3. Where is Fukushima? What disasters struck the city three years ago? What does the city look like now? Why are fields that once were full of crops now full of bags of soil? What radioactive poison was released during the nuclear plant meltdown? Why is the professor seen in the video especially worried about the poison's effect on fish? What does the reporter have to do before he enters the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant? What are workers there trying to do to the plant? How long will the cleanup take? According to the video, why will the town continue to sit empty for years?
4. What was the last horse to win the Triple Crown? What races make up the Triple Crown? How many horses have won the Triple Crown? What horse has a chance to achieve this distinction this year? What piece of equipment do California Chrome and some other horses wear that was previously banned at the Belmont Stakes? What is the function of this item?
5. Who are some of the commencement speakers seen in the video? What were some of the points they made? What advice did they offer? How did some use humor in their speeches?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that the U.S. Constitution designates the president as commander-in-chief of the armed forces but indicates that Congress has the power to declare war? What is the name of the law that requires the president of the United States to inform Congress before sending troops into potential conflicts? How would you explain the principle of checks and balances with regard to the armed forces and the branches of government?
2. Have you ever heard a commencement address that impressed you? If so, what did the speaker say that was memorable? If you could invite anyone to speak to your graduating class, whom would you choose, and why? What would you like to hear him or her say? What valuable lessons do you think that others could learn from this person?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
