Paris Jackson, the 15-year-old daughter of Michael Jackson, was rushed to a hospital after cutting one of her wrists early Wednesday morning, sources close to the Jackson family told CNN.
Paris called a suicide counseling hotline early Wednesday, which lead to a counselor calling 911 to the Jackson home in Calabasas, California, those sources said.
"Being a sensitive 15-year-old is difficult no matter who you are," attorney Perry Sanders said Wednesday morning. "It is especially difficult when you lose the person closest to you. Paris is physically fine and is getting appropriate medical attention. Please respect her privacy and the family's privacy."
Paris Jackson: Superstar's daughter builds own identity in spotlight
Other Jackson sources stopped short of calling the incident a suicide attempt, although one suggested it might be "a cry for help" from the teenager.
Paris posted messages to her million-plus Twitter followers late Tuesday evening:
"i wonder why tears are salty?"
"yesterday, all my troubles seemed so far away
"now it looks as though they're here to stay"
The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said its deputies "responded to a medical situation" at an address that matches the Jacksons' Calabasas home at 1:27 a.m. Wednesday. A patient was taken to a hospital, it said.
Paris, along with her grandmother, Katherine Jackson, and her brothers, Prince and Blanket, are suing AEG Live for liability in Michael Jackson's 2009 drug overdose death.
Paris and Prince are listed as witness in the Los Angeles trial and have been expected to testify in the wrongful death trial later this month.
Jackson trial lawyer Kevin Boyle spoke to reporters outside of court Wednesday afternoon, saying Paris can decide if she will testify during their part of the case, but AEG Live has subpoenaed her, calling her a key witness.
"The Jackson family and the Jackson lawyers are putting no pressure on Paris regarding this case at all," Boyle said. "It is AEG who is putting this case at Paris' back door."
Paris and Prince were questioned separately over two days by AEG lawyers just before the trial began in April.
"A grilling of a child regarding the loss of her father is going to create a lot of pressure," Boyle said. "Paris Jackson was asked intimate details about her father and her father's death; it was a very intense situation."
AEG Live lawyer Marvin Putnam denied his team was tough on Paris Jackson in her deposition. "I don't think anybody in the world could call it a grilling."
He declined to say he would not call her as a witness if she does not testify during the Jacksons' case.
"We have to know what they're putting on as a case before we decide what our defense will be," Putnam said. "I have no idea who we're going to call."
Paris made millions cry four years ago when she spoke up at the end of the public memorial service for her father.
"Ever since I was born, daddy has been the best father you could ever imagine," she said, fighting back tears as relatives consoled her. "And I just want to say that I love him so much," she said as she burst into tears and sought refuge in the embrace of family members.
Paris questioned about dad's death in lawsuit
Paris was recently reunited with her mother, who bowed out of her life when she was an infant. She has been spending time with Debbie Rowe on her horse farm.
Rowe issued a statement through her lawyer Wednesday morning: "We appreciate everyone's thoughts for Paris at this time and their respect for the family's privacy."
