(CNN Student News) -- November 26, 2013
CNN Student News' last program before Thanksgiving explains why travelers might want to pack patience before heading out: A stretch of winter weather is threatening transportation across the U.S. We also cover stories involving Christianity and Judaism, and we cook up a by-the-numbers look at the Thanksgiving holiday.
Teachers, please note that CNN Student News will not air the rest of this week for Thanksgiving. The daily program will return on Monday, December 2.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What challenges might a reporter face when interviewing passersby about a news issue? What characteristics might he or she look for in potential interviewees?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. devotional
2. Hanukkah
3. Thanksgiving
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What advice is given in the report on planning airline travel in winter?
2. What have been some of the reactions to a deal that eases sanctions against Iran in return for limits on its nuclear program?
3. What percentage of Americans eat turkey on Thanksgiving?
Discussion Questions:
1. What information might an airline seek before canceling a flight? In what ways might airlines, airports, transportation companies and travelers prepare in advance for wintertime travel?
2. Where do you turn for inspiration or strength when you are in a stressful or challenging situation?
3. What traditions does your family have around the Thanksgiving holiday? What do you know about how these traditions began?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Iran
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
