One of the men accused of the brutal daylight killing of British soldier Lee Rigby told police he took little joy in slaying.
Michael Adebolajo's interview with police was played to jurors at the Old Bailey criminal court in London on Wednesday, day four of the trial in which he and co-defendant Michael Adebowale have pleaded not guilty to the murder of Rigby in Woolwich on May 22.
In the interview, Adebolajo identified himself as Mujahideen Abu Hamza and began a long and uninterrupted statement by praising Allah and expressing his surprise and gratitude for the way he had been treated by police and medical staff, given what he described as "the serious nature of events."
"There still remain some great qualities in this nation," the British-born Adebolajo told police before saying he was ashamed to be called British.
"That title -- British -- is associated with the pillaging and rape of innocent people. This disgusts me to the core."
He went on to say that he did not enjoy watching horror movies or seeing blood spilled.
"It brings me little joy to approach anybody and slay them. Can you believe me?"
The jury has seen graphic mobile phone and CCTV footage of Adebolajo brandishing a machete and knife with his hands covered in blood after the attack on Rigby.
Adebolajo told police he would answer only questions he believed would help the British people.
"I am not here to satisfy your supervisor," he said. "I'm only here to prevent such an incident as happened on Wednesday, the 22nd of May, from ever happening again."
He did answer one direct question from police in the interview, and it concerned what he did to Rigby.
"Lee Rigby was killed on the 22nd of May," he said. "He was struck in the neck with a sharp implement and it was sawn until his head, you know, became almost detached, and may Allah forgive me of I acted in a way that is displeasing to him."
Pathologist Simon Poole told the court Wednesday that drummer Rigby suffered "numerous and very deep wounds" to the neck and that the cause of death was "multiple incised wounds."
During Adebolajo's two-hour interview with police, he also criticized British rulers whom he described as "wicked and black-hearted humans" from privileged schools like Eton, who wore expensive suits and drove expensive cars.
He singled out Prime Minister David Cameron; brothers David and Ed Milliband, the political veterans; and Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg.
He expressed particular disappointment with Cameron, who he said is trying to emulate a man he described as "using the magic of the tongue to dodge questions. He goes by the name of Tony Blair. Nobody realizes the wickedness and corruption of this man."
Earlier in the day, the court heard the statement of forensic psychiatrist Tim McKinley, who interviewed Adebolajo three times while he was being treated in a hospital after being shot by police shortly after the attack on Rigby. The psychiatrist described the defendant as polite and said he showed no signs of mental disorder, remorse or regret. Adebolajo told him he posed no threat to civilians, police or medical staff but would be a continued threat to the British military.
