(InStyle.com) -- We asked five stars for their innermost thoughts on perfume, then chose the season's best new scents
Beyonce: "I'll stick with one scent for five or six years. I'll wear it all the time."
Beyoncé
What was your first perfume?
273 by Fred Hayman. I wore it when I was a teenager. My mom used to wear it, and I stole it. (Fred Hayman 273, $55/2.5 fl. oz.; fragrancenet.com)
What images would pop into your head if you smelled it now?
Getting ready, curling my hair, putting my makeup on, going out to a party. And my mother, my childhood, my house.
What does your house smell like?
Vanilla. Warm and sweet. I have a lot of Diptyque candles around the house. Even when I'm away, I have someone burn them. I like having the scent in my pillows. (Diptyque Opopanax candle, $55; bergdorfgoodman.com)
You're the face of Emporio Armani Diamonds, which has rose and raspberry notes. What's it like?
Soft, sweet and comforting. Yesterday I had a day off, which is rare, and I took a long bath. When I got out, I was by myself and knew I would be all day, but I still sprayed it on. (Emporio Armani Diamonds, $50/1.7 fl. oz.; at Macy's)
What other scents do you like?
My favorite scent is my mother's cooking: her yams and her soul food. They smell like love, like being full and happy.
How about men's cologne?
I like [anything by] Creed. (Creed Original Santal, $110/1 fl. oz.; neimanmarcus.com)
Emmy Rossum
What fragrance did your mom wear while you were growing up?
Lancôme Trésor. It still reminds me of watching her get ready to go out at night. (Lancôme Trésor, $81/3.4 fl. oz.; lancome-usa.com)
What was your first perfume?
I got Elizabeth Taylor White Diamonds for my sixth birthday. I felt so sophisticated! I'd put my mom's red lipstick on my lips and cheeks, wear her high heels and spray the fragrance all over myself and the house. (Elizabeth Taylor White Diamonds, $65/3.3 fl. oz.; perfumania.com)
Which kind of fragrances are you usually drawn to?
I like ones that are clean, feminine, and not so famous that they are immediately recognizable. I [rarely] tell anyone what scent I wear -- it's a woman's most precious sensual secret.
Can you let us in on some of your all-time favorites?
My favorite is Miss Dior Chérie. It's classic and feminine, but flirty. I wear it to lunch, to dinner parties, to the beach, skiing and to big occasions like the Oscars, when I want to feel especially glamorous. (Miss Dior Chérie, $65/1.7 fl. oz.; at Nordstrom)
What men's scent do you like?
Angel Men. It's masculine and very appealing without being too strong. (Thierry Mugler Angel Men, $102/3.4 fl. oz.; bloomingdales.com)
Which kind of smells are you attracted to for soaps, shampoos, lotions and home fragrances?
I like traditional Johnson's No More Tears baby shampoo and Kérastase products. I like vanilla and pomegranate for soaps. My favorite candle is Jo Malone Wild Fig & Cassis.
Do you wear perfume when you're acting?
Always, especially during intimate kissing scenes! I wear something that is sensual but not too obvious.
Sarah Jessica Parker
How is your new fragrance, Covet, different from Lovely, the first one you helped create?
Lovely is very polite. It's the girl you marry, and Covet is the girl you date, you know? Covet is fun, slightly wanton, desperate. It's for a stop-at-nothing-to-get-what-you-want kind of a girl. (Sarah Jessica Parker Covet, $52/1.7 fl. oz.; macys.com)
What was the first scent you wore?
Love's Baby Soft. (Love's Baby Soft body spray, $12/1.5 fl. oz.; at drugstores)
If you got a whiff of it right now, what memories would it trigger?
It would be seventh grade and not having enough disposable money. It would be Fiorucci, a shirt tied in a knot at the waist, and the Yankees. It would be fighting with my brothers and sisters before school and my mother yelling at me, and not finishing my homework on a Sunday night.
Do you wear fragrance every day?
Without question. For some women, it's lip gloss or mascara or covering a blemish. I can do without all of that. But the idea of not putting on perfume is shocking to me.
Where do you apply it?
I love walking into a closet and smelling lingering aroma, so I always spray my clothes. And at the end of the bottle, when the atomizer no longer reaches the tiny little dribble that is left, I unscrew the top and pour the remainder onto a T-shirt or my dress.
What's your favorite men's scent?
I really love Old Spice and Guerlain Vetiver for men. (Guerlain Vetiver, $74/4.2 fl. oz.; saks.com)
What home fragrance do you love?
There's nothing better than a blue Rigaud candle. (Rigaud Chèvrefeuille candle, $75; gracioushome.com)
Do you have a favorite flower or fruit scent?
I love a peony when it's really in season, and I love lemons.
Gwyneth Paltrow
Do you wear perfume every day?
Not if I'm just in sweatpants around the house. But if I go out, I always squirt something on. It completes the look.
Are you always attracted to the same kind of scents?
It depends on my mood. [Sometimes] I like things that are a little more spicy. I really like Black Orchid, Tom Ford's perfume. Something a bit sexy.
Tom Ford Black Orchid, $65/1.7 fl. oz.; neimanmarcus.com.
You're the face of Estée Lauder Pleasures. How would you describe that fragrance?
It's floral and feminine, a sitting-in-your-garden kind of scent. (Estée Lauder Pleasures, $45/1.7 fl. oz.; at Macy's)
What perfume did your mom wear when you were a kid?
She wore Quadrille by Balenciaga, and they don't make it anymore. I always go online trying to find bottles [stashed] in someone's basement to give to her as a present because she's almost out of it.
Has your taste in scents changed since you became a mom?
No, but when I was pregnant I couldn't tolerate the smell of anything, whether it was garlic, orange juice or perfume.
Now do you avoid scents that might overwhelm little noses?
I just don't overdo it. A little spritz goes a long way.
What are some other, non-perfume fragrances you love?
I love the smell of lilies and paperwhites. I also burn these tea-scented candles from Mariage Frères. The best shampoo I've ever found is Japanese -- it's called Molto Bene B: Oce. It's so good for dry hair like mine. (Mariage Frères Thé Rouge candle, $65; aedes.com; Molto Bene B: Oce Shampoo SE, $16/8.1 oz.)
What scent do you love on men?
Ocean water. I like natural scents.
Victoria Beckham
How would you describe Intimately Beckham?
It's a white-flower fragrance with a lot of tuberose, which is my favorite flower. It's fresh and sexy in a fashion-y way. I think it's a happy smell. (Intimately Beckham, $42/1.7 fl. oz.; ulta.com)
Does it remind you of anything?
White flowers remind me of my grandmother: timeless and gorgeous. Everything I wear I would like to think of as timeless as well. I still wear dresses I bought 10 years ago.
So you like florals?
I love rose, tuberose and orange blossom. I'm a real girlie girl -- I love perfume, makeup and hair products. I think I know how girls want to smell.
Do you wear different scents for different moods?
For me it's more about the weather and what you're wearing and who you're with. Intimately Beckham is light, and perfect for warm weather. That's why we came up with Intimately Beckham Night (coming next year), which is slightly heavier.
How involved was David in creating the fragrance?
He was hands-on. He's masculine, but he's in touch with his feminine side too. He loves clothes and beauty products and aftershave.
Which men's scents does he like?
David and I both love Miller Harris. (Miller Harris Feuilles de Tabac, $120/3.4 fl. oz.; bigelowchemist.com)
What was your first fragrance?
Coco Chanel. If I smelled it today, it would take me back to being 14, just when I was first really getting into fashion. (Chanel Coco, $110/3.4 fl. oz.; at Nordstrom)
What scent did your mom wear?
Poison by Christian Dior. It was so distinctive. It instantly reminds me of the eighties -- all that hair and those big dresses. (Dior Poison, $43/1 fl. oz.; drugstore.com)
Any other favorites?
I love Jo Malone's grapefruit smells. And I have to say, nothing looks better in the bathroom than a bottle of Chanel No. 5 -- that's the ultimate. E-mail to a friend
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2008 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
Additional Reporting By Kwala Mandel; Alysia Poe; Suzanne Zuckerman
