(CNN Student News) -- August 14, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What questions should the media ask about futuristic technology proposals, like the Hyperloop?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these key terms you heard in today's show:
1. arraignment
2. U.S. Supreme Court session
3. speed of sound
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. In what American city did terrorist bombings occur on April 15, 2013?
2. How do sinkholes form?
3. The U.S. Supreme Court is the top of which branch of the federal government?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you think could be done to ensure that a high-profile legal issue is resolved fairly?
2. What are your thoughts on the U.S. Supreme Court decisions mentioned in today's program? Do you think that any of these will have an impact on you? If so, how? If not, why not?
3. Do you think that a transportation system like the one described in the program will be built within ten years? Why or why not? Would you want to be one of the first people to travel using the Hyperloop? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Boston, Massachusetts; Florida; California
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
