Fernando Torres rediscovered his scoring touch with a double at Stamford Bridge as Chelsea romped to a 5-0 win over Genk in their Champions League Group E match Wednesday.
The Spanish international striker had not scored in European club football for over two years, but looked dangerous throughout and might easily have had a hat-trick.
The Belgian visitors were up against it from the start and after Torres hit the post, Raul Mereiles scored with a thumping shot from outside the penalty area.
Torres was soon on the score sheet with a neat side foot effort and added his second with a well-placed header from a Mereiles cross.
Branislav Ivanovic headed home from a Florent Malouda free kick for the fourth just before halftime.
Torres, who was rested at the weekend, looked sharp as he went in search of his third and he was denied by Genk keeper Laszlo Koteles only for Salomon Kalou to grab the fifth from the rebound.
Chelsea lead Bayer Leverkusen by a point after the German side beat Valencia 2-1 in the other Group E match.
Former Chelsea midfielder Michael Ballack was the inspiration for Leverkusen, who fell behind to a goal from Brazil striker Jonas.
But they hit back through goals by midfielders Andre Schuerrle and Sidney Sam after the break, with ex-Germany captain Ballack setting up the winner with a superb defense-splitting pass.
Meanwhile in Group F,  Arsenal made sure it was a good night for English Premier League sides with a last-gasp victory over Marseille in the Stade Velodrome.
The game was headed for a 0-0 draw when substitute Aaron Ramsey cropped up for the precious winner as Arsenal go top of the group by a point from their French opponents.
Olympiakos of Greece beat German champions Borussia Dortmund 3-1 in the other match in the group to keep alive their hopes of qualification for the knockout stages.
Jose Holebas, a German player of Greek descent, headed the opener for the home side after just eight minutes.
Dortmund deservedly leveled through Polish striker Robert Lewandowski midway through the first half, but five minutes before the break Rafik Djebbour restored the Olympiakos lead.
With the visitors pressing, Olympiakos broke upfield to win a free kick and defender Francois Modesto headed home from Ariel Ibagaza's delivery to seal the victory.
