(CNN)  -- Bayern Munich eliminated fellow European powerhouses Juventus from this season's Champions League with a superb 4-1 win in Turin on Tuesday night.
David Trezeguet put Juventus in front after just 19 minutes, but Bayern goalkeeper Hans Jorg Butt equalized with an impudent penalty just before halftime with Croatian Ivica Olic scoring the second on 51 minutes.
Mario Gomez and substitute Anatoliy Tymoshchuk rounded off a brilliant display from Louis van Gaal's men with two late clinching goals.
The victory sees the German giants qualify in Group A behind Bordeaux, who beat Maccabi Haifa 1-0 in the night's other match with Brazilian forward Jussie scoring the only goal of the game.
Juventus went into the game at the Stade Communale with a point advantage over Bayern and looked set for the last 16 as French international Trezeguet ut them ahead with a volleyed goal.
But Butt, who is proviing an expert from the spot, sent Gianluigi Buffon the wrong way after Martin Caceres fouled Olic.
The second half saw Bayern continue to make the better chances and Olic gave them a deserved lead as Olic fired home from close range.
The late goals were the icing on the cake and defeat piles the pressure on Juve coach Ciro Ferrara.
In Group B, a makeshift Manchester United, who were playing with only one recognized defender, clinched top spot with a 3-1 win at VfL Wolsburg as Michael Owen grabbed an opportunist hat-trick.
Owen put United ahead just before halftime with a glancing header from a Nani cross after a fine team move.
Wolfsburg were more threatening after the break with the prolific Edin Dzeko equalizing with a fine strike to enhance his growing reputation ahead of the January transfer window.
But Owen showed his predatory instincts with an 83rd minute second after a brilliant run and cross by substitute Gabriel Obertan.
Wolfsburg defender Sascha Riether missed a cast-iron chance to equalize and put his side into the knockout stage, but United broke away and Owen completed his hat-trick.
"My scoring a hat-trick will probably make the headllines, but it was a great team display," Owen told Sky Sports after enhancing his claims for an England recall with clinical finishing.
CSKA Moscow took second in the group behind United with a 2-1 win against  Besiktas in Istanbul as Yevgeny Aldonin scored the winning goal in the fifth minute of injury time.
But the Russians are facing a UEFA disciplinary investigation after two of their players, defenders Aleksei Berezutski and Sergei Ignashevich, failed a doping test for a banned stimulant after the 3-3 draw with Manchester United in an earlier group game.
UEFA said on its official Web site that it would rule on the situation on December 17, but could take action against CSKA because more than one player was involved, giving Wolfsburg hope they could yet go through.
