The end of the line for three fugitive siblings came Wednesday on a rural stretch of Colorado interstate. With guns scattered around their wrecked white Subaru, the suspects made their play.
One brother stayed in the car. Another brother stumbled off through the brush to a couple of nearby businesses, only to be picked up after a citizen spotted him, authorities told CNN.
The sister, who wrote on her Flickr profile that she liked "causing mayhem with my siblings," tried to reload her automatic pistol, officials said. A police officer shot her in the leg.
In custody Wednesday evening, the "Dougherty family" survived a dramatic final scene that seemed foreshadowed.
"It was going to happen somewhere," Pueblo County Sheriff Kirk Taylor said.
Last week, Ryan Edward Dougherty, 21, texted, "There's a time for all of us to die" after he was sentenced in Florida on a criminal charge, according to a Florida sheriff's office.
With that, authorities said, Ryan Dougherty, sister Lee Grace Dougherty, 29; and half-brother Dylan Dougherty Stanley, 26, began a crime spree that included a bank robbery in Georgia and the attempted murder of a Florida police officer.
According to Taylor, the trio spent Tuesday night in the San Isabel National Forest about 10 to 12 miles west of Colorado City. The Colorado Springs Gazette quoted a store employee as saying the three apparently purchased a tent at a recreation supply retailer in the city on Tuesday.
Their run ended Wednesday morning on Interstate 25 between Colorado City and the town of Walsenburg, authorities said.
A deputy spotted the suspect vehicle at a gas station after it left the campground, officials said. It was now bearing Texas tags, Taylor said.
Officers were preparing to apprehend the occupants when the car pulled away. A 20-mile high-speed chase ensued.
Reaching speeds of more than 100 miles per hour, the fugitives shot at officers, who did not return fire, authorities said.
Colorado state troopers deployed a tire-deflation device, and that was the beginning of the end. A MAC-11 machine pistol, a handgun and two AK-47 rifles came flying out when the vehicle flipped and landed on a guard rail, Taylor said.
All three of the Doughertys suffered injuries. They were treated and put in custody.
They were being held Wednesday evening in Pueblo County as state, federal and local officials discuss when the trio may be returned to Georgia or Florida. The Colorado State Patrol sent a Twitter message indicating each was being charged with four counts of first-degree assault on a police officer.
The suspects are wanted for a bank robbery in Valdosta, Georgia, and the attempted murder of a Florida police officer.
"I am proud to say today we won," said Sheriff Chris Nocco of Pasco County, Florida, where one incident occurred earlier this month.
"The three Doughertys were speeding," Nocco told reporters. "It's ironic they didn't learn their lesson. The Colorado State Patrol attempted to pull them over. In that attempt to pull them over, the Doughertys went back to their MO and started shooting at law enforcement."
On Tuesday, a U.S. magistrate issued warrants for the siblings' arrest in connection with the August 2 bank robbery, where an AK-47-type assault rifle and a machine pistol were used.
They are also suspects in the attempted murder of a Zephyrhills, Florida, police officer that took place the same day -- but five hours earlier and 200 miles away.
The officer wasn't injured, though occupants in the getaway vehicle fired numerous rounds during a chase that reached up to 100 miles per hour, according to the Pasco County, Florida, Sheriff's Office. One round struck a tire, disabling the police vehicle, the sheriff's office said.
Since then, the siblings had been the subject of an interstate manhunt, with their faces plastered on hundreds of digital billboards from Florida to Kentucky to Texas.
According to a timeline of events that officials provided, Ryan Dougherty was sentenced August 1 in Volusia County, Florida, to 10 years' probation and two years of community control monitoring for convictions on two counts of sending harmful information to a minor.
After the sentencing, he sent his mother a text message: "There's a time for all of us to die," according to the sheriff's office.
At 6:30 a.m. August 2, a witness saw all three siblings leave in a white four-door vehicle from their Lacoochee home. At 6:59 a.m., Ryan Dougherty cut off his GPS monitoring ankle bracelet near Zephyrhills, the sheriff's office said.
At 7:12 a.m. August 2, the shooting with the Florida police officer occurred, after which 20 high-caliber casings were found at the scene, the sheriff's office said. The five-mile pursuit began after the officer tried to pull the vehicle over for speeding on State Road 54 in Zephyrhills, 30 miles northeast of Tampa, authorities said.
Then came the armed bank robbery at a CertusBank in Valdosta, at 12:24 p.m. the same day, the FBI said.
During that robbery, three people dressed in black with masks entered the bank's front entrance, the FBI said. Shots were fired at the ceiling, and everyone was told to get down, the bureau said. At least two of the robbers were armed, and the third obtained an undisclosed amount of cash, the FBI said.
The two brothers have been living in the same rented residence the past three years in Lacoochee, which is located in Pasco County, the sheriff's office said. Their sister, who had been living with her boyfriend in Orlando, just began staying with her brothers, the sheriff's office said.
With the most extensive record of the three, Ryan Edward Dougherty has had 14 felony arrests since 2007, including for alleged burglary, destroying evidence and probation violation, according to the sheriff's office.
Lee Grace Dougherty's criminal background includes five felony charges. Three of them are pending, all of them hit-and-run offenses in Cocoa Beach, Florida, the Pasco County Sheriff's office said. Her record also contains six misdemeanor charges, the sheriff's office said.
Dylan Dougherty Stanley's criminal record shows a possession of marijuana charge, the sheriff's office said.
The sheriff's office didn't have information on the disposition of the past charges against the brothers and sister.
It released photos of Lee Grace Dougherty, with a description of tattoos. Public information officer Douglas Tobin confirmed the photos were taken from the suspect's Flickr page, which was established in September 2010.
Photos, many from March 2011, show Dougherty in various poses.
"I have a huge crazy family. I'm 28 but act like I'm 17 most of the time," the profile reads. "I love to farm and shoot guys and wreck cars. I'm a redneck and proud of it. I like milk and German engineering and causing mayhem with my siblings."
CNN's Kara Devlin, Brian Todd, Dugald McConnell and Michael Martinez contributed to this report.
