(InStyle.com) -- This year, the Emmy Awards come on the heels of New York Fashion Week. How does the red carpet measure up to the runway?
"The Spring and Fall collections were all about loose shapes and subtle, restrained sensuality," says Hal Rubenstein, InStyle Fashion Director and author of the upcoming "100 Unforgettable Dresses." "On the other end of the spectrum, 10 out of 10 celebrities we loved on the Emmy's red carpet are wearing body conscious gowns."
Sofia Vergara
"Modern Family's" Sofia Vergara struck a pose on the Emmys carpet in a curve-hugging scarlet Vera Wang creation, which she accessorized with stunning emerald earrings. "The most exciting part of my outfit is my Colombian emeralds," the outstanding supporting actress in a comedy series nominee said of her ensemble.
See all the best-dressed stars on the Emmys red carpet
Julianna Margulies
Nominee and presenter Julianna Margulies chose a strapless white Armani Privé couture gown featuring a jewel-dotted bodice."The Good Wife" star admitted that it wasn't easy getting to the red carpet, though she picked her look the night before.
InStyle.com: Top fashion and jewelry trends at the Emmys
Minka Kelly
Presenter Minka Kelly chose a navy Christian Dior gown, which featured lace sleeves and insets. Hairstylist Mark Townsend gave her a chic low side chignon, while makeup artist Matthew VanLeeuwen painted on perfect smoky eyes and a pink lip stain.
Nina Dobrev
Vampire Diaries beauty Nina Dobrev looked elegant in a strapless, form-fitting red Donna Karan gown, Neil Lane jewels, Brian Atwood stilettos and a Judith Leiber clutch.
InStyle.com: Best hair and makeup at the Emmys
Evan Rachel Wood
"I put it on and it immediately fit," the "Mildred Pierce" star said of her black sequin Elie Saab gown. "I didn't have to do a thing to it. I have to give it back that's the only unfortunate part." The outstanding supporting actress nominee completed her look with Fred Leighton jewels, Salvatore Ferragamo shoes and a Judith Leiber bag.
Kerry Washington
Presenter Kerry Washington wore a red beaded, strapless Zuhair Murad gown with a fitted silhouette. She finished the look with a matching crimson Jimmy Choo clutch and shoes.
Kristen Wiig
Funnylady Kristen Wiig paired her cinched waist, chocolate ombré Zac Posen design with weighty gold Fred Leighton bangles.The outstanding supporting actress in a comedy series nominee left her caramel-highlighted strands down and loose to complement the rich brown tones in her gown.
Amy Poehler
"Parks and Recreation" star Amy Poehler accessorized her glittering blue Peter Som gown with ball drop earrings, a matching ring, and a Judith Leiber clutch.
The Most Fashionable TV Shows of All Time
Julie Bowen
"I can't believe I'm wearing Oscar de la Renta," the "Modern Family" star and Emmy nominee said about her metallic gown with the plunging neckline. "It's always been a little bit of a dream." Her low side ponytail showed off her stunning Neil Lane drop earrings.
Kate Winslet
"I'm wearing a really comfortable Elie Saab dress. I like it a lot," Kate Winslet said of her vibrant curve-conscious Emmys look. The outstanding lead actress in a miniseries nominee teased her blond waves into a loose updo, and accessorized with diamond drop earrings, a matching bracelet and a sleek clutch.
Check out all of the night's top looks at InStyle.com.
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
