Hillary Clinton is the prohibitive favorite for the Democrats' presidential nomination in 2016. And there are countless political operatives with opinions on how she should run her all-but-certain campaign.
That combination has led to tons of unsolicited advice thrown at the former secretary of state, some of it counter intuitive and a lot of contradictory. Here are the five pieces of unsolicited advice being volleyed regularly at Hillary Clinton:
1.) Run from Obama
President Barack Obama took most of the blame for Democrats' losses on Nov. 4. So shortly after Election Day, a cacophony of anonymous allies were telling Clinton to run away from the president she served under for four years.
"She is not President Obama. Let's not forget, they were a team of rivals," one ally told The Hill. "Now is the time to further enunciate these differences."
Clinton allies expressed similar sentiments to CNN. The thinking goes that if the president is unpopular, Clinton should start distance herself now, as opposed to months down the road when it may be harder.
2.) Run to Obama
Clinton allies have also been telling reporters that because Republican pickups in Senate create a larger target for both her and the President, it would make sense for them to join forces.
"President Obama's legacy is now entirely dependent on the election of a Democratic successor as president who will protect and extend it, not demolish it," David Brock, the chairman of a pro-Clinton super PAC, told the Washington Post. "Should she run, they both now have a common enemy in a Republican Congress that will define politics through 2016."
Simon Rosenberg, the president of the New Democrat Network, echoed Brock in the same Washington Post story.
"Looking ahead to 2016, I think it would be wise for the entire party, but particularly its presidential aspirants, to learn the lesson of [Al] Gore 2000 and the 2014 midterms," Rosenberg said, referencing two elections where Democrats ran away from their own president. "You cannot run away from the president of your party."
3.) Find a rationale
David Axelrod, President Barack Obama senior political adviser who at one point was hell bent on beating Hillary Clinton, told an audience in Washington, D.C. on Thursday that in order to win in 2016, Hillary Clinton needs to "not rely too much on that we do have an electoral vote advantage and demographic advantages."
Instead, Axelrod argued that Clinton need to find a rationale for her campaign, and do it quickly.
"I think the danger for Secretary Clinton is that, as was the case in 2007, her candidacy is out in front of the rationale for it," Axelrod said, urging the former secretary of state to get out of the "cocoon of inevitability."
4.) Deal with your baggage
Rudy Giuliani visited Politico on Wednesday, and the former presidential candidate revealed he had his own advice for Hillary Clinton.
"She's a candidate who, with her baggage, can be beaten by the right candidate who handles it the right way and by the right campaign who handles it the right way," the former New York City mayor said. "As a first lady she tried one thing and failed," he added, referencing her push to pass universal healthcare early in her husband's first presidential term.
5.) Ride the populist wave
Robert Reich, a Clinton cabinet official from the 90s and friend to both Bill and Hillary, told MSNBC that in order to win in 2016, the former first lady needed to focus on economic populism far more than her husband did in his presidential runs.
Reich said that Bill Clinton got away by "alluding" to issues like economic inequality and the decline of the middle class. For Hillary, on the other hand, "it's got to be central."
"Now the situation has changed," he said.
Clinton has been using populist rhetoric in her speeches and regularly focused on minimum wage and economic inequality while stumping for candidates in 2014.
