Malmo is a shopper's heaven. Most stores are within walking distance of the city center, and unlike in neighboring Copenhagen, where shops are usually shut all day on Sunday, most department stores and shopping centers are open seven days a week.
Select from modern and classic designs at the shop at the Form Design Center.
Stock up on souvenirs at the stores around Lilla Torg. Hokeriet, an old-fashioned general store, sells a variety of collectibles and interesting gifts while hand-painted Swedish wooden clogs are a specialty of Toffelmakaren.
Venture into the picturesque Gamla Vaster neighborhood and you'll find chic boutiques like Issue (Stora Nygatan 25a) which stocks designer labels like Marc by Marc Jacobs and Rag & Bone.
Fashion mavens will also want to check out the eclectic label Robert & Blad (Norra Grangesbergsgatan 4), which is known for making well-cut clothes in good fabrics. Kit of Elsinore (Rodergatan 2) in the trendy Western Harbor neighborhood is another spot to hit for of-the-moment style.
If you want the convenience of a big shopping center, you can find just about anything at Hansa (Malmborgsgatan 6) and Triangeln (Sodra Forstadsgatan 41), which are both centrally located. If you have a weakness for shoes, check out the feminine footwear at Scardia, which recently moved from its flagship store in Master Johannsgatan to Hansa.
Scandinavia is synonymous with good design and you don't have to go far in Malmo to find examples to take home. A variety of contemporary and classic designs are on sale in the shop at the Form Design Center in Hedmanska Garden. Also check out Formagruppen (Engelbrektsgatan 8) and Olsson & Gerthel (Engelbrektsgatan 9), which are both located nearby.
Looking to spruce up your home? David Design (Skeppsbron 3) specializes in sophisticated interior design. Design Torget (Sodra Vallgatan 3) is the perfect place to find a gift for that someone who's impossible to buy for. The shop showcases independent designers and sells everything from unique kitchen utensils to quirky toys for kids. New items are added to its shelves every week.
Take a break from your shopping extravaganza at Saluhallen, the covered market on Lilla Torg that is a tourist attraction it is own right. Stalls sell everything from sushi and kebabs to baked potatoes and bagels.
If you're into buying green, Drottningtorget is the place for you. Here you'll find Morot & Annat, which sells everything from organically produced textiles to produce. Nearby Uma Bazaar (Ostra Forstadsg 13) stocks a wide range of fair-trade clothing produced by a women's collective in India.
.................... Malmo City Guide:  Where to stay | What to see | Where to be seen | Where to eat | Where to shop
Do you agree with our Malmo picks? Share your comments and suggestions in the SoundOff below.
