The mother of a man reportedly killed by pirates on a lake along the U.S.-Mexico border pleaded for help in finding her son's body Tuesday.
Appearing on NBC's "Today" show, David Hartley's mother, Pam Hartley, tearfully asked Mexican authorities and the public to help recover his remains.
"Please, everybody call your Congress. Call anybody you can to have them get us over there. He has to come home," she said. "President Obama, help us. President of Mexico, help us, please."
Hartley's wife Tiffany reported that she and her husband were riding personal watercraft Thursday on the Mexican side of Falcon Lake when they were attacked by gunmen on three boats. Hartley was shot and fell into the water, his wife told sheriff's deputies in Zapata County, Texas, but his body has yet to be found.
"He was thrown off the Jet Ski and I couldn't pick him up to get him on mine," Hartley told a sheriff's dispatcher in a 911 call released by the agency.
Speaking on the CBS "Early Show" on Tuesday, Tiffany Hartley said she didn't believe Mexican investigators were looking for her husband's remains, and suggested that his killers had the body.
"We understand the possibility that the people who did this probably have him, and that's why maybe they can't find him," she said.
There was no immediate response from officials in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas to her remarks. But Zapata County Sheriff Sigifredo Gonzalez Jr. told CNN on Monday that his agency has contacted Mexican authorities "on a daily basis" and was trying to coordinate search efforts by volunteers, but had received no response.
U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, the area's congressman, said he has asked federal agencies to press for support for the search from their Mexican counterparts.
"I have contacted the Mexican Embassy and urged them to move the case quickly," Cuellar said in a statement issued Tuesday afternoon.
A man Tiffany Hartley approached for help told CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360" that a boat was following her before she came ashore, but veered off as she neared land.
"She right away told me, gave me instructions as far as to call law enforcement and an ambulance because 'My husband's been shot,' " said the man, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
He said Hartley was "frantic -- crying, sobbing. I mean, she looked very, very jittery."
The reservoir is on the Rio Grande River, about 200 miles south of San Antonio, and straddles the border between Texas and Tamaulipas. The Mexican state has made headlines recently as a hotbed for drug cartel violence, and Gonzalez said he believes the attackers were pirates linked to the cartels.
"My understanding is they're 15, 16, 17-year-olds that have been given automatic weapons. They barely know how to use them," Gonzalez told CNN on Monday. "They don't even know where the safeties are at."
There have been at least four cases of gunmen in Mexican waters robbing or threatening boaters since April, according to the Texas Department of Public Safety. The department has warned boaters to stay on the U.S. side of the lake since May.
Richard Drake, an area fisherman, told CNN he was chased by men carrying AK-47 rifles on Falcon Lake in May. They got to within 15 yards of his boat, which he said was along the international boundary.
"Fortunately, I had a faster boat than they did, so I outran them," he said. "They chased me for about a mile, mile and a half, and then they tailed off."
He said local fishermen had heard "that there were some people being robbed" and were advising boaters to avoid the Mexican side of the lake, "so I wasn't on the Mexican side. I was going down the middle of the lake when they kind of came out of the brush and kind of ambushed me."
