Derby games can sometimes be dull, with space at a premium and scoring chances few.
That wasn't the case Saturday when Liverpool and Everton played to a thrilling 3-3 lunchtime draw in the English Premier League.
Daniel Sturridge's goal in the 89th minute salvaged a point for Liverpool, which had taken the lead away from home in the fifth minute.
It was the highest scoring Merseyside league derby since Liverpool thrashed Everton 6-0 in 1935.
"All in all a wonderful game and when you come to your rivals it is important not to lose," Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers told BT Sport.
Liverpool's dropped points, though, allowed Arsenal to extend its advantage atop the Premier League to four points. The Gunners later defeated Southampton 2-0.
Prior to Sturridge's conversion from a Steven Gerrard free kick, Romelu Lukaku's two second-half goals reversed a 2-1 Liverpool lead.
Lukaku netted his sixth and seventh league goals since joining Everton on loan from Chelsea.
"That is the best experience I've ever had in club football," the Belgian international told BT Sport. "It's a pity we didn't win but hopefully we will next time."
Lukaku's compatriot, Kevin Mirallas, canceled out Philippe Coutinho's effort to make it 1-1 after eight minutes before Luis Suarez's free kick put Liverpool back on top.
Despite losing influential left-back Leighton Baines to injury and after Liverpool's Joe Allen missed a sitter, Everton pushed forward in the second half and got its reward through Lukaku strikes in the 72nd and 82nd minutes.
Substitute Sturridge, however, had the last word.
"It's really disappointing we didn't get three points," Everton manager Roberto Martinez, whose side still rose to fifth, told BT Sport. "I'm disappointed to concede from three set plays.
"To concede late on from a dead ball situation doesn't reward my team for how they played in the second half."
Southampton could have gone top of the standings but a mistake by goalkeeper Artur Boruc -- one of the Saints' best players this season -- gifted Olivier Giroud the opening goal in the 22nd minute in London.
Giroud, part of France's squad that this week advanced to the World Cup courtesy of the playoffs, completed his brace from the penalty spot in the 86th minute after defender Jose Fonte tugged at the shirt of Per Mertesacker.
Chelsea pulled level with Liverpool on 24 points, dispatching West Ham 3-0 in the late kickoff thanks to a pair of strikes from former Hammer Frank Lampard.
Elsewhere, Newcastle beat Norwich 2-1 for a third consecutive victory -- French striker Loic Remy has scored in all three games -- and Stoke City blanked 10-man Sunderland 2-0.
Sunderland defender Wes Brown saw red to the disbelief of Black Cats boss Gus Poyet in the 36th minute.
Crystal Palace, which named Tony Pulis as manager earlier Saturday, moved off the bottom and ahead of Sunderland by edging Hull City 1-0 even after having Yannick Bolasie dismissed in the 78th minute.
Fulham remained in the relegation zone, downed 2-1 at home by Swansea in Rene Meulensteen's first game as head coach assisting Cottagers manager Martin Jol.
On Sunday Manchester City, perfect at home but struggling on the road, hosts Tottenham and Manchester United visits Cardiff. The Red Devils are coming off a morale boosting 1-0 win over Arsenal two weeks ago.
