Editor's note: CNN.com has a business partnership with CareerBuilder.com, which serves as the exclusive provider of job listings and services to CNN.com.
When Twitter asks "What are you doing," maybe you should be following tweets on job advice.
When microblogging and social networking site Twitter debuted three years ago, plenty of people wrote it off as yet another pointless addition in the overcrowded networking world.
Considering the site only allows people to post, or Tweet, messages of 140 characters or less, you can't blame early skeptics.
But little by little, users proved the site's worth to nonbelievers. Last year, student James Karl Buck was traveling in Egypt and wound up in jail. He Tweeted "arrested" to notify his friends of what was going on and ultimately get out of jail.
During the 2008 presidential election, candidates reached out to voters using the service. When a plane crashed into the Hudson River in January, a Twitter user posted the first photograph from the scene.
Although we're in the nascent stage of Twitter's existence and therefore have no idea how long it will be around, we do know it has more growing to do.
If you're not yet certain you want to start posting your own daily activities for everyone to read, you can still use the service as a resource for tips on finding a job and keeping up with industry news. Job seekers can follow people who will make your job search process easier, from the interviewing stage to the salary negotiations.
I follow many people whom I think give great advice, post informative articles and know what they're talking about. Seeing as the Twitter feed refreshes constantly so that I see new posts instantly, it's like having a scrolling news ticker about only the subjects I want to read. I suggest you do the same to improve your job search.
Here are the 10 job Tweeters you should be following.
@adriennewaldo
About the author: Adrienne Waldo, a New York-based writer, consultant and blogger, made a name for herself when she began blogging about Generation Y.
Why you should follow her: Waldo, a Generation Y-er herself, offers advice as someone who's in the same shoes as many of her equally young Twitter followers, but she also uses her experience to let followers know what employers are thinking.
@AlisonDoyle
About the author: Alison Doyle regularly writes articles on job-seeking issues, ranging from interview advice to using social media appropriately.
Why you should follow her: She's prolific, so you always have something to read, and she knows her stuff.
@AnitaBruzzese
About the author: Anita Bruzzese is the author of "45 Things You Do That Drive Your Boss Crazy" and also writes a workplace blog full of tips and advice for employees.
Why you should follow her: She lets you know when she's updated her blog, which is full of helpful advice. She also shares quirky, sometimes off-topic links that lighten the day's mood.
@CAREEREALISM
About the authors: Careerealism.com founder J.T. O'Donnell and a group of job experts let you know when they've posted new advice for job seekers. They also respond to job seekers with career questions -- in 140 characters or less, of course.
Why you should follow them: As a follower, you get to read advice from several experts who know what they're talking about and give their own perspectives.
@careerdiva
About the author: Eve Tahmincioglu blogs, publishes articles and Tweets on career issues.
Why you should follow her: Her advice is excellent and she often brings up issues you might not have otherwise considered.
@CBforJobSeekers
About the authors: CareerBuilder's team of experts writes for the job seeking blog TheWorkBuzz.com and workplace articles, such as the one you're reading right now.
Why you should follow them: The team's Tweets are a mix of tips, news stories, helpful articles and blog posts to keep you informed of what's going on in the world of job seekers.
@heatherhuhman
About the author: Heather Huhman is an expert on helping Generation Y job seekers and recent graduates navigate the professional world.
Why you should follow her: Huhman Tweets when she writes a new article, directs followers to other helpful experts and offers her own tips from time to time.
@InterviewCoach
About the author: Lewis Lin is a Seattle-based interview coach who prepares clients for the difficult questions that will come their way during a job search.
Why you should follow him: Lin Tweets his own interview tips, as well as other experts' advice and news articles.
@Keppie_Careers
About the author: Atlanta-based Miriam Salpeter is a career coach and résumé writer for Keppie Careers. She helps job seekers spice up their résumés, prepare for interviews and achieve their career goals.
Why you should follow her: In addition to posting links to the day's job seeker headlines and news, she also offers career advice and lets you know where she'll be giving presentations.
@Writerbabe
About the author: Chicago-based Raven Moore authors The Writerbabe Series, a blog that explores professional, pop-culture and newsworthy topics.
Why you should follow her: Moore directs you both to her own writings and to other writers' works, as well as interesting news items she comes across. Plus, some of her personal Tweets are entertaining enough to make you forget about the current economy.
Copyright CareerBuilder.com 2009. All rights reserved. The information contained in this article may not be published, broadcast or otherwise distributed without the prior written authority
