On Monday morning, the first porn app for Google Glass was announced. Unfortunately, the app violated the most recent additions to Google's developer policies for the futuristic eyewear, which ban sexually explicit material.
The pornographic app for Glass was released by MiKandi, an adult app store that has a successful Android app store for adult apps. Using the application, Google Glass wearers could look at photos and watch videos filmed using Google Glass. The company wanted to expand from first-person point of view videos to one-on-one interactions between adults who both have Glass.
Now it seems that business plan will need to be altered.
Google added a new section to its developer policies for Google Glass late last week that prohibits apps from delivering sexually explicit content.
"Our policies make it clear that Glass does not allow Glassware content that contains nudity, graphic sex acts, or sexually explicit material. Any Glassware that violates this policy will be blocked from appearing on Glass," a Google spokesperson said. The same section promises harsh penalties for any app featuring child pornography. Google also bans gratuitous violence, hate speech and gambling on Glass.
The connected Glass headset features a tiny screen above the right eye that can display Internet content. The device is still in beta mode and is not expected to go on sale to the general public until late this year or early 2014.
More than 10,000 people have visited the landing page for the porn app, and a dozen Glass owners have signed up with the app, MiKandi CEO Jesse Adams said in a blog post.
He said the company made sure it was following the Google Glass developer terms when it started creating the app two weeks ago, but those rules were changed by Google just before the app's launch. MiKandi will comply with the new rules, and plans on rolling out a new app that somehow doesn't include any of the forbidden content.
"Although the app is still live and people are using it, at this point we must make changes to the app in order to comply with the new policies. Expect to see changes to the application tomorrow," Adams said in a blog post.
This is not the first time the adult company has gone up against Silicon Valley giants.
In 2011, Apple sent the company a cease and desist letter for using the phrase "app store" in its tagline. It has also had apps rejected from the iOS and Android app stores before.
Google Glass is a completely new product, and the public is still figuring out how and if it will be used. The company is working hard to avoid a sullied reputation for the wearable computer before it it is publicly released.
How it feels to wear Google Glass
