Chris Brown has some words of advice for suspended NFL player Ray Rice.
In an interview with MTV's Sway Calloway Thursday, Brown opened up about his own history with domestic violence in light of Rice being cut from the Baltimore Ravens and suspended from the league after a leaked video depicted the player punching his now-wife, Janay Rice.
"To Ray or anybody else, because I'm not better than the next man, I can just say I've been down that road," Brown told MTV News. "I've made my mistakes too, but it's all about how you push forward and how you control yourself."
Brown infamously attacked his former girlfriend Rihanna in 2009 on the eve of the Grammy Awards, and was sentenced to a five-year probation and 1,400 hours of community service.
"It's all about the choices you do make," Brown told Calloway. "I deal with a lot of anger issues from my past, not knowing how to express myself verbally and at the same time not knowing how to cope with my emotions and deal with them and understand what they were."
The 25-year-old R&B and hip-hop artist explains that therapy has been crucial in helping him better understand and grasp control of his feelings.
"I still talk to my therapist twice a week," he said. "It helps me ... if I'm frustrated and I'm dealing with something, to vent and say what I'm going through so I can hear from an actual clinical person, 'This is how you should react,' or 'It's good to feel this way because feelings, emotions, and energy and emotions, are supposed to come and go. It's not supposed to stay there, you're not supposed to keep it inside, because it'll just bottle up and you'll become a monster.'"
The singer noted that due to his past, he's not in a position to pass judgment, but is simply speaking from his personal experience.
"For anybody who's going through that situation or anybody who's dealing with it -- it's all about the choices," Brown said. "Every situation is different, but it's all about the choices you make and how you control your anger."
