AC Milan reclaimed second place in Italy's Serie A with a tempestuous 2-1 victory at Napoli on Monday night which saw the home side reduced to 10 men for half the game before a near-brawl erupted late in the match.
Milan reduced Lazio's lead to two points after eight rounds thanks to a goal in each half from forwards Robinho and Zlatan Ibrahimovic, putting Massimiliano Allegri's team two clear of third-placed city rivals Inter.
Napoli, who were left in sixth place, had midfielder Michele Pazienza sent off in first-half injury-time for a second handball offense but managed to reduce the deficit with 12 minutes to play with an ingenious effort from striker Ezequiel Lavezzi.
Milan went into the match hoping to capitalize on defending champions Inter's 1-1 draw with Sampdoria on Sunday, and made the perfect start when Robinho opened the scoring in the 22nd minute.
The Brazil star, starting in place of injured compatriot Ronaldinho, calmly sidefooted home a left-foot shot from the edge of the area following a fine cutback from substitute Massimo Oddo.
Oddo, who came on for defender Luca Antonini, had found space down the right with Napoli down to 10 men as Christian Maggio received treatment for a head injury suffered in the collision that saw the Milan player leave the field 10 minutes earlier.
Maggio was then replaced by Algeria international Hassan Yebda, and matters got worse for Napoli when Pazienza was sent off in the first minute of time added on.
However, Lavezzi almost equalized before the halftime whistle blew with a superb header that required a flying save from Milan keeper Christian Abbiati.
Abbiati was again called into action on the hour mark when he denied a fierce effort from Slovakia midfielder Marek Hamsik as Napoli continued to press forward, but Ibrahimovic made it 2-0 in the 71st minute with his third league goal since returning to Serie A from Barcelona.
The Sweden striker bulleted in a powerful header from another Oddo cross that keeper Morgan De Sanctis could only deflect into his net.
But Napoli hit back seven minutes later when Lavezzi picked himself off the floor following a goalmouth scramble to scoop a delightful flick over Abbiati and in off the crossbar.
Tensions boiled over in the 83rd minute when Salvatore Aronica appeared to catch Robinho in the face with a flying arm, resulting in Kevin Prince-Boateng racing in with a rash challenge on the Napoli midfielder before confronting him.
Aronica and the Ghana midfielder were both booked along with Napoli's Argentine defender Hugo Campagnaro as players piled in from both sides, including Ibrahimovic -- who appeared to be sent off after encroaching on the pitch following his earlier substitution.
Napoli forced two corners in the five minutes of time added on but could not level despite De Sanctis joining in the attacks, giving Milan a morale-boosting win ahead of this weekend's clash with fifth-placed Juventus.
Meanwhile, promoted Real Sociedad moved up to 11th place in Spain's La Liga after a 3-0 win at home to struggling Deportivo La Coruna on Monday night.
Striker Joseba Llorente opened the scoring in the 17th minute from from Alberto de la Bella's cross, and 19-year-old French winger Antoine Griezmann made it 2-0 with 20 minutes to play with a second headed strike before a bizarre celebration which saw him jump behind the wheel of a car parked on the side of the pitch.
Striker Imanol Agirretxe sealed the victory in the 86th minute after being set free by fellow substitute Jeffrey Sarpong to leave 1999-2000 Spanish champions Deportivo languishing second from bottom in the table.
