(CNN Student News) -- November 7, 2014
There's a lot of medical information on today's show. After defining cytology, we tell you about an effort intended to revolutionize the study. And we explore the symptoms and challenges presented by bipolar disorder. For science teachers (and fans), we've got a report on a new type of "suit" that's helping people build airplanes. And basketball skills net a college freshman a new truck.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. Over what California desert did Virgin Galactic's SpaceShipTwo break up during a test flight?
2. What place of worship, opened to the public in 1512, shows some of Michelangelo's most famous masterpieces?
3. In what year did Congress establish Election Day in the U.S.?
4. At least how many seats does a political party need in the U.S. Senate to have control of the chamber?
5. What piece of sports equipment recently set a Guinness World Record as the longest, measuring more than 20 feet in length?
6. The Executive Branch of the U.S. government is controlled by what political party?
7. In the U.S. midterm elections, what political party gained control of the Senate and expanded its control of the House?
8. In order to override a presidential veto, what fraction of both chambers of Congress must vote to do so?
9. What does a cytologist study?
10. In what war-torn nation did the U.S. launch a recent airstrike against the Khorasan terrorist group?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
