Lindsay Lohan was determined to find pink Uggs. Amanda Seyfried and Lacey Chabert listened to Dido. Rachel McAdams auditioned for Cady. And Tina Fey took a lot of Winnebago rides to Toronto.
It's amazing what the "Mean Girls" cast remembered after 10 years.
Lohan, Seyfried, Chabert, McAdams and Fey (who also wrote the film) got together for Entertainment Weekly to chat about the 2004 movie and their experiences. (Lizzy Caplan, Daniel Franzese, Jonathan Bennett and Amy Poehler didn't participate.)
Fey said that the group all stayed at the same hotel in Toronto, where the movie was shot. It allowed for bonding, but for the writer and actress, there were also some drawbacks.
"The fire alarm would go off pretty much every night at some point -- it was just a flaw of the hotel," she recalled. "At the time I was coming back and forth from ('Saturday Night Live') a lot from New York. I don't remember if I was weird about flying or if it was the timing, but sometimes I would go do 'SNL,' then I would get in a Winnebago at two in the morning and be driven to Toronto. It's so stupid."
But the members of the Plastics -- the group of girls played by McAdams, Chabert and Seyfried -- had a good time.
"Amanda and I became very close very quickly," said Chabert, who turned 21 during filming and hosted a dinner for Canadian Thanksgiving.
Chabert was obviously a good cook. "Lacey taught me how to make pecan pie. She made my experience so magical and so safe for me," said Seyfried.
And what of Lohan? She originally wanted to be the queen of mean, Regina, but finally gave in to director Mark Waters' insistence that she should play Cady. The pink Uggs were part of her Method process, she laughed.
Oh, there was also the Chihauhua attacking Poehler's breast. The bit was done by placing a cocktail weiner in Poehler's bra, McAdams recalled.
"She's trying to do her lines and being so professional, and this dog is chomping on her fake boob. I'll never forget that," she said.
However, though they have fond memories of the film, they're still perplexed when people recite its very quotable lines back to them.
What makes a movie quote so quotable?
McAdams was recently staying in Ireland when a fan asked her to say some of her favorites.
"I couldn't think of any of them!" she said.
It worked out OK.
"She literally fed me all these lines," McAdams said, "Like: 'Is butter a carb?' "
