Arriving at an airport and jumping into a taxi is the preferred option for most, and a necessary expense for time-pressed business travelers. But try passing off a $300 airport to city center fare and your accounts department may like to have a chat with you when you return to the office.
That's how much the average cab ride from Tokyo's Narita airport into the city center costs, making it the world's most expensive, according to a new survey by British foreign exchange company, Moneycorp.
By comparison a single ticket on the Narita Express train to the heart of Tokyo costs $28.
Tokyo's main international airport is 66 kilometers (41 miles) from the city, explaining a large part of the expense. Despite a weakening currency, making the journey almost 10% cheaper than at the same time last year, Japan remains an expensive destination for many visitors.
Click on the map to learn how much each airport to city center taxi fare costs.
Per kilometer the taxi journey from Narita costs $4.42, but is not the priciest by distance. That dubious honor goes to Copenhagen. Despite being only 8 kilometers from the city center of the Danish capital, an average taxi fare from the airport cost $50 ($6.50 per kilometer). Geneva in Switzerland is the next most expensive fare per kilometer.
Visitors to Oslo's Gardermoen airport and Milan's Malpensa will also have to budget in high transfer costs; the Norwegian capital and Italian city costing visitors $112 and $106 respectively to reach the city center. Both cities are over 40 kilometers from the airports.
"It's interesting that some of the biggest variations in taxi costs are in mainland Europe," said Tracey Tivnan of Moneycorp in a press statement.
"For example, the taxi fare from Milan Malpensa airport to the city center will cost you more than £70 ($106). This compares to just £2.17 ($3.30) from Sofia airport to the center of Sofia."
Elsewhere, of the popular destinations surveyed, the cheapest airport taxi fares can be found in Asia. The traffic-choked ride into Delhi costing on average $4.10, and Bangkok, $8.58.
