A 36-year-old woman who was reported missing shortly after Christmas has been found dead in Atlanta, authorities said Wednesday.
Investigators used dental records to identify a body found in southwest Atlanta as that of Stacey Nicole English, the Fulton County Medical Examiner's office said in a statement.
An autopsy did not reveal a cause of death, the office said, and further investigation and testing probably will take several weeks to complete.
English's abandoned car was discovered, with the motor running, in Atlanta in late December.
Police have made no arrests in the case. They also have named no suspects.
Robert Kirk, a St. Louis man who had stayed with her December 24-26, said English was "acting peculiar and out of character" during the stay, adding that "she began screaming in the apartment and shouting biblical scriptures and indicating that the world was coming to an end," a police report said.
He said that he left around 10:30 p.m. on December 26, after English "began asking him if he was Satan" and told him to leave "her residence immediately."
A friend, Michelle Strothers, told police that she last saw English on that day or the next one. In an interview with police on New Year's Eve, Strothers said that her friend "appeared upset" and told her "she felt as if someone was attempting to hurt her."
"She also stated that Ms. English was acting out of character, and began discussing the end of the world and quoting biblical scriptures," said the police report.
Earlier, English's mother and stepfather told police that they typically talked with her "several times a week" and became worried after she did not answer their calls since they last talked with her on Christmas. They eventually used a spare key to enter her apartment, where they saw "no sign of English," the police report said.
Her mother, Cynthia Jamison, said that English "was currently taking medication" and had attempted suicide by overdose a little more than two years earlier, according to police.
Private investigator T.J. Ward, hired by the family, told HLN's Vinnie Politan that neither homicide nor suicide can be ruled out at this point, and that the area is being treated as a crime scene. "When toxicology comes back (we will) see if there was something in her system that could have caused her death."
