Patriots Day is the third Monday in April marking the anniversary of the first battles of the American Revolutionary War. It is also the date for the Boston Marathon every year. It is meant to be a joyful celebration for the city, but yesterday that all changed.
Tragedy struck and lives were changed forever after two bombs exploded near the finish line of the marathon. Instead of celebrating the city, a nation now mourns the loss of three and the injuries of more than 100. But true to the American spirit, there are people and organizations on the ground helping the victims, and you can join their efforts.
One Fund Boston
Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick and Boston's Mayor Tom Menino,along with the city, have established the 'One Fund Boston'. "At times like this we are one state, one city and once people," Governor Patrick said. The fund has already raised over $23 million, which will go towards victims and their families most affected by the bombings.
Donate to Onefundboston.org
FBI victims assistance center
The FBI assistance center is activated for anyone who was injured or who witnessed the Boston bombings
The Red Cross.
The Red Cross is on the ground and has mobilized mental health volunteers to support those affected, as well as opening family assistance centers. They are offering 24/7 free mental health support - if you want to access this, contact the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline at 1-800-985-5990 or text 'TalkWithUs' to 66746.
The Red Cross recommends people download their First Aid app which provides information on how to help in emergency situations. The Red Cross also has valuable information about dealing with an emotional crises
Donate to or volunteer with the American Red Cross
Give blood
There may be a for blood on a sustained basis. Anyone wishing to give blood should keep checking with local hospitals and organizations like the Red Cross in the near future to see where the need may be and where to donate.
The Salvation Army
The Salvation Army has established a specific fund for the victims in Boston and you can donate to it here.
Boston Children's Hospital
Ten of the victims were taken to Boston's Children's Hospital. The hospital is updating its website with news as it becomes available. Follow @BostonChildrens on Twitter for updates.
The Children's Hospital website also has useful resources for guidance on how to talk to children after a tragedy.
Donate to Boston's Children's Hospital
Adidas Boston Tribute Tee
Adidas has designed a T shirt commending all the Boston first responders, the Boston Athletic Association and all volunteers for their reaction to the events surrounding the bombings. 100% of proceeds from sales of the T shirts will go to the OnefundBoston.org
Buy an Adidas Boston Tribute Tee
B Strong hat
Major League Baseball, the Major League Baseball Players Association and the Boston Red Sox have all joined up to donate a combined $600,000 to victims of the marathon bombing and their families. The Red Sox and MLB will also donate 100% of the proceeds from the sale of 'B Strong' hats with the Red Sox letter 'B', to The One Fund, created by Mayor Menino.
Buy a 'B Strong' hat
Boston Marathon Relief Fund
Semper Fi fund has created a Boston Marathon relief fund. Donations raised will go to help those injured in the bombing and hospital staff."To donate, please go to the Americas Fund website and select Boston Marathon Relief fund from the drop-down menu.
Donate to the Boston Marathon Relief Fund
Richard Family Fund
The Richard Family Fund has been established to help the family of 8 year old Martin Richard, who died in the bombings. Martin's mother and sister were also badly injured. Funds will help with the family's medical expenses and recovery.
Donate to the Richard Family Fund
Sean Collier Memorial Fund
MIT has created a memorial fund in honor of slain campus police office Sean Collier.
Donate to the Sean Collier Memorial Fund
Celeste and Sydney Corcoran Recovery Fund
Celeste and Sydney Corcoran were both badly injured in the blasts. Sydney sustained severe shrapnel injuries and Celeste has had both legs amputated below the knee. Anyone wishing to help the family with the financial burden of this tragedy can donate to a fund in their name.
Donate to the Celeste and Sydney Recovery Fund
White Family Fund
3 members of the White family sustained serious injuries in the explosions, and one family member has lost a limb. A fund has been set up through the website 'Youcaring.com' to help the family with recovery and rehabilitation.
Donate to the White family fund
Jeff Bauman Fund
Waiting to cheer his girlfriend across the finish line, Jeff Bauman was caught in the explosion and suffered the loss of both legs, severe burns and vision damage. A fund has been set up to help Jeff at 'Youcaring.com'.
Donate to the Jeff Bauman Fund
Patrick Downes and Jessica Kensky fund
Newlywed couple Patrick Downes and Jessica Kensky each lost a leg in the Boston blasts. A fund has been set up to help with their recovery, rehabilitation and prosthetics through Giveforward.com
Donate to the Patrick Downes and Jessica Kensky fund
Adrianne Haslet-Davis Fund
Dancer Adrianne Haslet-Davis and her husband Adam were both caught up in the bombing. Adrianne lost her left foot. A fund has been established to help Adrianne's recovery.
Donate to the Adrianne Haslet-Davis fund
Nicole and Michael Gross, Erika Brannock Fund
The 'Be Strong Stay Strong' fund has been set up to help Nicole and Michael Gross, along with Nicole's sister Erika - all severely injured by the bombs as they stood near the finish line at the Boston marathon.
Donate to the Be Strong Stay Strong fund
Lu Lingzi Scholarship Fund
Trustees at Boston University have created a scholarship fund in the name of Lu Lingzi, the Chinese graduate student there who tragically died in the attacks. You can donate to the fund and also post messages of support to her family on the dedicated website.
Donate to the Lu Lingzi Fund
Utilize social media
People often turn to Twitter for quick ways to connect. If you are in the Boston area and are looking for organizations seeking volunteers, or if you are far away but want to keep up with ways o help, follow the hashtag #BostonHelp on Twitter.
You also can keep up with us @CNNImpact or Impact Your World on Facebook as well as on our website.
