Scotland's Andy Murray will face Roger Federer in the final of the Shanghai Masters on Sunday after both men eased past their semi-final opponents in straight sets on Saturday.
World number four Murray powered past Argentina's Juan Monaco 6-4 6-1 in 85 minutes at the Qi Zhong center to reach his second straight final at a Masters 1000 event.
Murray broke Monaco's serve early in the first set to open up a two game lead, but the South American refused to lie down, and when Murray double-faulted to squander his service game in the ninth game, it looked as though the Scot might drop his first set of the tournament.
But the 23-year-old didn't panic and broke back instantly to secure the opening set 6-4.
It was one-way traffic from there on in as Murray broke the South American's serve twice to comfortably secure his passage to the final.
"In each match I felt better. I feel like I move well on these courts and I can still get my serve through the court to get enough free points, Murray said after the match, AFP reported.
Murray, who is looking for his second title of the season will face Roger Federer in the final after he beat Novak Djokovic 7-5 6-4 in the second semi-final.
The record-breaking Swiss produced some vintage form to overcome Djokovic, who beat Federer in the semi-final at the U.S. Open last month.
But it wasn't easy going for the former world number one as he took just over an hour to secure the first set.
Federer had to save four break points in the fourth game to square up the set 2-2. And it wasn't until the 11th game that the Swiss was finally able to break the Serb's serve.
Federer served out the first set and rammed home his advantage with an early break in the second, which was quickly followed by another. Djokovic claimed one of the breaks back but couldn't stop Federer reaching his fourth final of the season.
Sunday's final is a repeat of the previous Masters event in Toronto in August.
Murray won that encounter and currently holds a 7-5 career lead over the 16-time grand slam champion.
Federer's semi-final win means he switches places in the world rankings with Djokovic, rising to second, behind current number one Spain's Rafael Nadal.
