Congolese side TP Mazembe Englebert became the first African team to clinch a place in FIFA's Club World Cup final after a stunning victory over Brazilian giants Internacional.
Goals from Mulota Kubangu and Dioko Kaluyituka secured a 2-0 win for Mazembe in Abu Dhabi  and handed them a shot at being crowned world champions in Saturday's final.
They become the first team from outside Europe or South America to reach the showpiece final and will face the winners of Wednesday's clash between Italian and European champions Inter Milan and Asian Champions League holders Seongnam Ilhwa FC, from Korea.
Mazembe's coach, Lamine N'Diaye, told FIFA's website: "It's something special for us. We are here to represent Africa, and all of Africa will be proud of our work.
"We believed in ourselves, we were confident and you could see that when we started attacking, especially at the start of the second half. We were lucky too, and don't forget that our goalkeeper was excellent -- he was like a magician!
"We have succeeded and shown that our players are of a high standard. We have achieved a great victory. It's very good for this team and for the Congolese people, and every African should be proud of this team."
There was no hint of the shock to come in the opening stages of the game at the Mohammed Bin Zayed Stadium as Internacional passed their way round their opponents and created a host of chances.
But the Brazilian side, who were crowned world champions after beating Spanish giants Barcelona back in 2006, couldn't find a way past Mazembe goalkeeper Muteba Kidiaba.
Kidiaba made superb saves from Rafael Sobis and Indio before Tinga wasted the best chance for Internacional, heading over from seven yards.
But the Congolese outfit were a different proposition in the second half and took just eight minutes to find the net. Collecting Amia Ekanga's pass, Kubangu smashed a perfect volley into the far corner, sparking wild scenes of celebration.
Kidiaba was again called upon to deny Sobis just before the hour mark, following it with another brilliant stop as Giuliano bore down on goal.
But as Internacional pressed for an equalizer late in the game, Mazembe caught them on the break as Kaluyituka's 20-yard effort crept inside the post.
Internacional's coach, Celso Roth, said: "It was time for Africa to reach the final and unfortunately it has been at our expense. There's no dishonor in that -- African football is improving all the time and I don't see anything shameful in losing to an African team.
We never underestimated them -- they really deserved to be at this stage, they defended very well and took their chances. We had lots of great opportunities but unfortunately their goalkeeper was excellent."
