Roger Federer extended his winning run to eight matches on Monday with a hard-fought victory over Russia's Dmitry Tursunov in the third round of the BNP Paribas Open at Indian Wells in California.
The Swiss, who is seeking a fifth singles title at the tournament, snuck through in straight sets 7-6 7-6 in one hour, 45 minutes.
Victory for 32-year-old Federer sets up a clash with either Germany's Tommy Haas or Kei Nishikori from Japan who play later on Monday.
The world No. 8 received a bye in the first round before dispatching France's Paul-Henri Matheiu in straight sets in round two following on from his triumph in Dubai at the beginning of the month.
In the other early match played Monday, Andy Murray needed three sets to beat Jiri Vesely of the Czech Republic.
The Scot also labored in victory over Lukas Rosol in round two but eventually prevailed against world No. 77 Vesely 6-7 6-4 6-4.
Murray, who underwent back surgery last September, has yet to find his best form since returning to action in December and again looked ring-rusty against the big Czech.
The world No. 6 -- an Indian Wells finalist in 2009 -- dropped serve six times against Vesely but eventually won through in two hours, 48 minutes.
"Whether it was the beginning or the end, it was that sort of match where at no stage did either of us play well at the same time," Murray said.
"I started the match well, he started off the match badly. He missed a lot of easy shots, and then he started playing consistent, not making errors, and I started missing.
"It's good to have the chance to play another match here and hopefully put in a better performance."
Meanwhile in the women's draw, China's Li Na overcame the challenge of Karolina Pliskova from the Czech Republic winning in straight sets 6-3 6-4.
Top seeded Li faces Aleksandra Wozniak in the fourth round after the Canadian won through against Russia's Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova in three sets 6-1 6-7 6-0.
Italy's Flavia Pennetta is also through to the fourth round after a three set victory (6-4 3-6 6-1) over Australia's Samantha Stosur.
