(CNN Student News) -- May 8, 2014
From the U.S. to South Africa, and from Brunei to Beverly Hills, today's edition of CNN Student News takes you around the world in 10 minutes. We detail some of the tools at the Federal Reserve's disposal as it makes decisions concerning monetary policy. And we give you a spacecraft's view of an explosion on our nearest star.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What messages does news coverage of a high-profile drug bust send to the audience?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. synthetic drugs
2. the Fed
3. boycott
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What are synthetic drugs? How are they different from other drugs? According to the video, why are they sometimes more dangerous? What announcement did the U.S. federal government make yesterday regarding synthetic drugs? What is one reason why the government is so concerned about these drugs?
2. What is the Federal Reserve? Where is it based? Who is in charge of the Fed? According to the video, what are two things that the Fed cares about? How does the Fed regulate the economy?
3. How long has it been since apartheid ended in South Africa? Who was Nelson Mandela? What is his political party? Who is the current president of South Africa? According to the video, why are some voters disenchanted with him and his party? What is the expected outcome at the polls? Why?
4. What kind of law was recently instituted in the country of Brunei? What is this country's connection to a landmark hotel in Beverly Hills, California? Why are some celebrities and others boycotting the hotel? What effect is the boycott having on hotel workers?
Discussion Questions:
1. What are some strategies you might suggest for informing young people about the dangers of synthetic drugs? Who might you enlist to help with this effort? What kinds of anti-drug messages do you think are most effective? Why?
2. What actions by the Fed might have an impact on an everyday consumer's life? How?
3. How does a boycott work? Why might some people boycott a particular business? What side effects might this have? Are you aware of any boycotts in the news in the past? Explain. Were these actions effective or ineffective? Why?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
