Egyptian authorities released Suzanne Mubarak, the wife of ousted President Hosni Mubarak, on bail Tuesday after she relinquished assets to the state.
Suzanne Mubarak, 70, gave up bank accounts worth $3.4 million, said Aly Hassan, a spokesman for the department overseeing a corruption probe. Mubarak also signed an affidavit allowing further investigation into her fortunes both in Egypt and abroad, Hassan said.
She also gave up a villa, reported the state-owned Al Ahram newspaper.
Mubarak and her husband, who was ousted from power February 11 after 18 days of uprising, face allegations of illegally acquiring wealth.
Hosni Mubarak is also being investigated for culpability in the deaths of protesters. He remains in detention.
Mohamed Fathalla, a doctor at the Sharm el-Sheikh hospital, said Suzanne Mubarak's blood pressure was extremely high and she should not be detained any more, Al Ahram said.
Her psychological state was also volatile, said Adel Adawy, assistant to the health minister, and she will be treated at Sharm el-Sheikh hospital, the newspaper said.
She was hospitalized after suffering a heart attack last week and was treated in the intensive care unit.
Assem al-Gohary, the assistant justice minister for the Illicit Gains Authority, had ordered her detained for "obtaining illegal wealth using her husband's position and political authority."
A team of investigators from the authority, a separate investigative unit under the Ministry of Justice, had questioned the former president in the same hospital for three hours last Thursday regarding "using his political position as president to acquire illegal wealth."
"Hosni Mubarak was also questioned about his luxury mansion in Sharm el-Sheikh," al-Gohary said. Last month, the former president suffered a heart attack during questioning over possible corruption charges, Egyptian state television reported.
But the head doctor from a Ministry of Justice team assisting with the questioning disputed the diagnosis, saying later that the former leader had heart palpitations and was able to walk with assistance. He was deemed stable enough to allow prosecutors to resume questioning at the hospital, according to Al Ahram.
Hosni Mubarak has said the state inquiry is aimed at tarnishing his reputation and that of his family.
Journalist Mohamed Fadel Fahmy contributed to this report.
