A man who police say was recently stabbed by the accuser in the 2006 Duke University lacrosse scandal has died, the Durham County, North Carolina, medical examiner's office confirmed Thursday.
Reginald Daye, 46, died Wednesday at Duke University Hospital as a result of the stabbing earlier this month, Durham police said.
Crystal Mangum, whose accusation of rape against three Duke athletes generated national attention and sparked debate over class and race, was charged with assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill and inflicting serious injury in the stabbing of Daye.
Officers responding to a call found a man who had been stabbed in the torso and who was taken to the hospital for treatment of serious injuries, police said.
They said they later arrested Mangum, described as the man's girlfriend, and that the stabbing occurred during a quarrel at the couple's shared apartment.
Mangum, 32, was placed in the Durham County Jail without bond. As of Thursday morning, no additional warrant had been served against Mangum. Her next court date is April 25, officials said.
"The case remains under investigation and we do anticipate upgrading the charges," police spokeswoman Kammie Michael said. "No new charges have been filed at this time and there is no court hearing scheduled for today."
In March 2006, Mangum claimed to have been sexually assaulted by three players on the Duke lacrosse team while performing as a stripper for a team party.
North Carolina's attorney general later found no credible evidence that the attacks occurred and the charges were dropped.
The scandal, however, forced the cancellation of the men's lacrosse season that year and the resignation of team coach Mike Pressler. It also led to widespread criticism of Durham County District Attorney Mike Nifong, who was later disbarred for his handling of the case.
Mangum was arrested in February 2010 on attempted murder charges after a fight with her then-boyfriend. She also was accused of arson, identity theft and resisting arrest, among other charges.
CNN affiliate WTVD-TV reported the arrest happened after she set fire to a pile of the boyfriend's clothes while her children were at home.
In a June 2010 interview with the station, Mangum said her boyfriend had attacked her, and she said that her involvement in the Duke lacrosse case had influenced police handling of the case.
"I do feel that I am being unjustly treated because of preconceived notions about my character in the media," Mangum said at the time.
In December, a jury found Mangum guilty of child abuse in the case but could not agree on a first-degree felony arson charge, which could have resulted in a seven-year sentence, WTVD reported.
