President Barack Obama took to the Spanish-language network airwaves Monday  to discuss challenges in educating Hispanics students.
In a Univision-sponsored town hall  meeting with Hispanic students and educators at Bell Multicultural High School  in Washington, the president said to out-educate and out-innovate the  global competition, the Latino community must play a key role in the  future.
"Our workforce is going to be more  diverse; it is going to be, to a large percentage, Latino.  And if our young  people are not getting the kind of education they need, we won't succeed as a  nation," Obama said.
With several students and parents  asking questions about immigration and deportations, Obama said the  answer wouldn't be overnight. He hoped the DREAM Act, which would give kids who have  grown up in the United States an opportunity to earn citizenship despite their family's immigration  status, would be passed in the future.
"We didn't get it passed this time,  but I don't want young people to be giving up because if people in the past had  given up, we probably wouldn't have women's rights, we wouldn't have civil  rights.  So many changes that we've made had to do with young people being  willing to struggle and fight to make sure that their voices are heard," said Obama.
Carrie Cofer, an English teacher at Lincoln-West High School in  Cleveland, says one challenge she faces with her Hispanic students is that  they haven't been in the United States long  enough to become proficient in English.
Although they only read at the  "first-grade, or second-grade level," Cofer and other  teachers are supposed to teach them the material they will need to pass  state-mandated tests in order to graduate from high school and possibly attend  college.
It doesn't help that many of the  students don't speak English at home.  "They don't have the skills because they  don't practice except in the classroom," she said.
Obama said that strong  programs, including both bilingual education and immersion programs, are key to making sure  bilingual students keep up with their studies while becoming fluent in English.  He said that it's up to both schools and parents.
"We have schools that do it very well;  there are some schools that don't do it as well.  We want to lift up those  models that do it well," the president said. "And parents should be demanding  and insisting that even if your child is not a native English speaker, there is  no reason why they can't succeed in school, and schools have an obligation to  make sure that those children are provided for.  They have rights just like  everybody else."
Latino students make up over 20% of  the pre-kindergarten-through-high-school students in the United States, Secretary of the  Education Arne Duncan said in a conference call with reporters last week. "These  students face real and growing challenges that we have to  address."
Duncan said that only about half of  all Latino students earn their high school diploma on time, and only one in  eight end up with a bachelor's  degree.
The problems faced by Latinos in  high school are unique, said Juan Sepulveda of the White House Initiative on  Educational Excellence for Hispanics.
"We have a small percentage of the  population that has a college degree," said Sepulveda. "Even if you throw in  community college degrees, we only get up to 19%."
Sepulveda said these students are  often the first in their family to go to college, suggesting school officials  need to target parents to make sure they understand what courses their children  need to take to get into college and how student loans work.
CNN's Sally Holland contributed to this report.
