Bales of cocaine have been washing up on the beaches of Cornwall.
Frank Partridge and the bale of cocaine he found while out beach-combing with his dog.
The latest was found on Pentreath beach, on the Lizard Peninsula, Britain's southernmost point.
Frank Partridge, 57, a semi-retired electrical engineer, regularly takes his dogs beach-combing. On Monday afternoon, at low tide, he found more than the usual driftwood.
"The dogs went up to the parcel first," said Frank. "I went up and saw what it was. I'd heard rumors of a lot of drugs washed up on Cornish beaches. I looked at it and thought I wouldn't leave it there because, sure as eggs are eggs, by the time I got back it wouldn't be there."
On February 7, suitcase-sized packages wrapped in sacking were found on Bude beach, in north Cornwall. The following day, more packages were found at Helston on Cornwall's southern coast.
Police have confirmed the parcels contained a total of 50 kilos of cocaine, with an estimated street value of £2.5 million ($4.96 million).
Another two consignments were recovered last weekend. On Saturday, a parcel was found at Portscatho, a fishing village further along the coast from Pentreath. A fishing boat hauled in a parcel off the Lizard peninsula on Sunday.
The results of the forensic analysis are not yet available, but police have said that the bales are similar in appearance to those seized earlier.
Frank's haul attracted attention immediately. "When I brought it back, I put it outside the cottage. A man came up with a camera. We took some family snaps beside it.
"The police asked me if I could keep this one quiet. Well, it's impossible in a Cornish village."
Rumors circulating in Pentreath as to the possible origins center around a Liberian container vessel which found herself in thirty foot seas off Cornwall, at the beginning of February.
The ship was forced to call for assistance from Falmouth Coastguard, after the Master was seriously injured and her Del Monte deck cargo was swept overboard.
"Some people in the village reckon that the drugs were hidden among the bananas in the containers," said Frank.
Investigating police say there is not yet any idea as to the origins of the drugs. They ask that anyone finding similar packages should not touch them but should call the police as a matter of urgency. E-mail to a friend
