Zlatan Ibrahimovic produced a memorable performance after his four-goal salvo helped Sweden defeat England in Stockholm.
The 31-year-old, who has scored ten goals in as many games for club side Paris Saint-Germain, was on fire once again as Roy Hodgson's men were swept away.
The Swedish skipper had given his side a 20th minute lead before goals from Manchester United's Danny Welbeck and Tottenham's Steven Caulker gave England a half-time.
Ibrahimovic arrival marks watershed moment for Paris Saint-Germain
But it was Ibrahimovic who stole the show after the interval, with three strikes in the final 12 minutes.
After netting a 78th minute equaliser, Ibrahimovic slammed home a rasping 30-yard free-kick before rounding off his night with a scarcely believable scissors kick.
It ruined the night for England captain Steven Gerrard, who had hoped to celebrate his 100th cap with victory.
Gerrard told ITV 1: "I still stick by Zinedine Zidane, he is the best player in the world as the best player of his generation, but his (Ibrahimovic's) performance was world class and he just scored one of the best goals I seen live.
"It was his night. If someone scores four goals and the way he scored them....it's one of the best I've seen."
Hodgson added: "The fourth goal was extraordinary, but it was the second and third goals which cost us.
"For 70 minutes we were playing very well and we deserved to be in the lead, but we made changes and they took the initiative."
Elsewhere, France recorded an impressive 2-1 victory over Italy after it came from behind in Parma.
Milan star Stephan El Shaarway gave the hosts the lead only for France to hit back through Mathieu Valbuena and Bafetimbi Gomis.
The highly anticipated grudge match between the Netherlands and Germany failed to catch light as it finished goalless in Amsterdam.
Messi passes Pele's goal milestone
Lionel Messi drew a rare blank after Argentina was held to a goalless draw by Saudi Arabia.
Despite boasting the likes of Sergio Aguero and Angel Di Maria in their starting line-up, Argentina were unable to make the breakthrough against a stubborn Saudi defence.
Mikkel Diskerud scored a late equalizer as the U.S. grabbed a 2-2 draw in Russia.
Fyodor Smolov had given the hosts a ninth minute lead before Michael Bradley's fine effort brought the U.S. level.
Roman Shirokov looked to have won the contest with an 84th minute penalty but Diskerud fired home late on to ensure the game finished level.
Elsewhere, Portugal was held to a 2-2 draw in Gabon, Uruguay defeated Poland 3-1 and Greece claimed a 1-0 win over the Republic of Ireland.
