Four-time champions Barcelona will come up against rising power Paris Saint-German in the quarterfinals of the European Champions League.
The draw for the last eight of Europe's premier club competition took place in Nyon, Switzerland on Friday, with Barca's match-up with Qatari-owned PSG the pick of the ties.
The two teams met in the quarterfinals of the competition in 1995, with the French team progressing thanks to a 3-2 aggregate win.
Nine-time winners Real Madrid have been paired with Turkey's Galatasaray, while Italian champions Juventus will play runaway German league leaders Bayern Munich.
Join the CNN Football Club!
The remaining tie pits Champions League debutants Malaga against 1997 winners Borussia Dortmund.
Barca advanced courtesy of a stunning comeback win over Italy's AC Milan.
The Catalan team trailed Milan 2-0 heading into Tuesday's second leg at the Nou Camp, but the Spanish La Liga leaders won 4-0 to reach the quarterfinals for the sixth consecutive year.
PSG's challenge will be headed by Swedish striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who will be returning to his former club.
Blog: Are English clubs in Champions League decline?
Ibrahimovic will miss the first leg in Paris through suspension after picking up a red card for violent conduct during PSG's round of 16 win over Valencia.
Real coach Jose Mourinho is aiming to lead Los Blancos to a landmark 10th triumph in the competition. If the Portuguese coach succeeds in delivering "La Decima" to the Bernabeu, he will become the first coach to win the trophy with three different teams following previous successes with Porto and Inter Milan.
Galatasaray are in the quarterfinals for the first time in 12 years. The Istanbul team have been strengthened by the arrival of Ivorian striker Didier Drogba, who scored the penalty which crowned Chelsea kings of Europe last season.
Two-time champions Juventus have not reached this stage of the competition since 2006. Antonio Conte's team face a Bayern side looking to erase the memories of last season's final defeat to Chelsea, which took place in the club's own Allianz Arena stadium.
Dortmund have been German champions in each of the last two season, with coach Jurgen Klopp earning praise for the vibrant, attacking football played by his young team.
The quarterfinals represents a step into the unknown for Malaga. Coach Manuel Pellegrini has taken Champions League debutants into the last eight for the second time, following his Villarreal team's run to the semifinals in 2006.
