Kevin Pietersen's career as an international cricketer has been ended by the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB).
The ECB said Tuesday that it was not considering the batsmen for selection for the upcoming tour of the West Indies or the ICC World Twenty20 which takes place in Bangladesh during March and April.
In a statement released on the ECB website, England cricket's governing body said the time had come to start the rebuilding process following the tour of Australia in which England were whitewashed 5-0 in the Ashes Test series.
Read more: Australia completes Ashes rout of England
In a statement released Tuesday, ECB managing director Paul Downton said: "Clearly this was a tough decision because Kevin has been such an outstanding player for England as the fact that he is the country's leading run scorer in international cricket demonstrates.
"However everyone was aware that there was a need to begin the long term planning after the Australia tour. Therefore we have decided the time is right to look to the future and start to rebuild not only the team but also team ethic and philosophy.
"England cricket owes a debt of gratitude to Kevin who has proved to be one of the most talented and exciting players to ever represent the country and his 13,797 runs are a testimony to his immense skill.
"This decision brings some clarity now for the future of the England teams and we all wish Kevin the very best in the rest of his career."
Pietersen, a hugely talented and flamboyant batsmen, burst onto the Test scene in 2005 against Australia scoring two half-centuries on his debut at Lord's.
The two innings set the tone for a maverick career in which he amassed 8181 runs in 104 Tests including 23 centuries and a further 5,616 runs in one-day and Twenty20 internationals combined.
For all his runs on the pitch -- Pietersen is England's leading international run-scorer -- the 33-year-old has also been perceived to be a divisive figure in the dressing room at times during his career.
Pietersen said in the ECB statement that it had been a "huge honor" to play for his country.
"Every time I pulled on the England shirt was a moment of huge pride for me and that is something that will live with me forever," Pietersen said.
"Although I am obviously very sad the incredible journey has come to an end, I'm also hugely proud of what we, as a team, have achieved over the past nine years.
"I feel extremely fortunate to have played at a time of great success for England cricket alongside some of the best cricketers the country has ever produced.
"I want to thank everyone for their fantastic support and I wish the team the very best of success going forward.
"I believe I have a great deal still to give as a cricketer. I will continue to play but deeply regret that it won't be for England."
The news of Pietersen's departure from the international scene saddened and confused his former England captain Michael Vaughan who tweeted: "Sad way to end a mavericks England Career .@KP24 will be missed...Would love to know what he does that is unmanageable !!??"
