UEFA has opened disciplinary proceedings against Lazio over allegations a section of their supporters chanted racial abuse at Tottenham players in the Europa League on Thursday.
Aaron Lennon, Jermain Defoe and Andros Townsend appeared to be subjected to racist abuse -- including monkey chants -- during the goalless draw at White Hart Lane, a game that was watched by UEFA president Michel Platini.
Members of Football Against Racism in Football (FARE) who were at White Hart Lane plan to file reports to UEFA to assist with their investigation.
Romanian referee Ovidiu Alin Hategan and match delegate Adonis Procopiu have already submitted their reports of the match's events.
Tottenham held by Lazio in Europa League
"UEFA has opened disciplinary proceedings against S.S. Lazio for the improper conduct of the club's supporters (racist behavior) during the UEFA Europa League group stage match on Thursday 20 September between Tottenham Hotspur FC and the Italian side," read a UEFA statement.
"The UEFA Control and Disciplinary Body will deal with the case on 18 October 2012."
Lazio could be hit with a fine of $26,000 if their fans are found guilty of racial abuse, while UEFA could also force the club to play their next game behind closed doors.
Racism remains "significant" problem in English football
Earlier this week Chelsea midfielder John Obi Mikel had to close his Twitter account after receiving racist abuse online.
Chelsea issued a statement condemning those responsible and has informed the police following the matter.
The statement read: "We've been made aware of racist tweets targeted at Mikel which are totally unacceptable, disgusting and abhorrent.
"We've informed the police and support taking the strongest possible action."
This season UEFA has fined Bulgarian side Levski Sofia $39,000 for racist behaviour by their fans during the club's Europa League second qualifying round match.
Levski fans unveiled a racist banner during their game against Bosnia & Herzegovina's Sarajevo on July 19.
"Fans should realise that the club is responsible for all of their extreme or irrational actions," Levski said in a statement.
Meanwhile on Thursday, two AIK Solna supporters suffered stab wounds while in Naples for their side's Europa League game against Napoli.
A 41-year-old and a 23-year-old were both wounded in the leg, but the club do not believe the attack was football related.
