After Angelina Jolie made the surprise announcement on Tuesday of having undergone a preventative double mastectomy, the world stood in awe of her brave move and willingness to share her story. Now hailed an inspiration to other women, CNN examines what makes us love the Oscar-winning actress turned humanitarian.
1. Demonstrating courage
Angelina Jolie has never been afraid to express herself, emotionally or artistically. Her decision to publicly announce her preventative surgery so other women could benefit from her experience shows bravery and an overwhelming desire to help others.
She has gone against her own public image and challenged the perception of a woman's identity by choosing to speak up about her operation. Even more powerful, her global reach may influence millions of women to proactively look after themselves.
2. Humanitarian efforts
It has become Jolie's mission to provide a voice for people whose lives have been ravaged by war and natural disasters.
In short, she has turned her celebrity status into a force for good. She has personally donated more than $5 million to the UNHCR since 2001. In addition to her appointment as UN Special Envoy to Refugees, the actress has set up the Maddox Jolie-Pitt Foundation dedicated to conservation, education and healthcare in Cambodia.
3. Transcending stereotypes
Jolie refuses to fit a certain mold and proves that women can be daring and independent, and at the same time caring and altruistic. She is a loving mother of six campaigning tirelessly for women and children across the globe, but she is also an Oscar-winning Hollywood actress.
The actress has redefined what it means to be a humanitarian.
4. Cinematic talent
From her award-winning portrayal of a mentally unstable woman in "Girl, Interrupted" to starring in the "Lara Croft" series, Jolie has steered clear of typecasting and has not shied away from theatrical risk.
In the last decade, she has steered her career in a serious and meaningful direction, starring in films such as "Changeling," as a distraught mother looking for her son, and "A Mighty Heart," playing the role of Mariane Pearl, wife of U.S. journalist Daniel Pearl who was, in 2002, abducted and killed in Pakistan. 
In 2011, she made her directorial debut with "In the Land of Blood and Honey," a film about the Bosnian War.
5. From celebrity to icon
Jolie has emerged as a woman who is not afraid to make mistakes. She has made the ultimate transition -- from Hollywood starlet to global ambassador and in turn, has become an icon of female empowerment, strength and independence along the way.
