A first-half brace from Arjen Robben eased Bayern Munich to a 2-0 win over bottom-of-the-table Braunschweig at the Allianz Arena on Saturday to keep the reigning champions four points clear at the top of the Bundesliga.
The victory is the Bavarians sixth on the bounce since drawing at Leverkusen at the beginning of October, and extends their unbeaten run in the league to 39 games.
Pep Guardiola's team, who secured a record tenth successive Champions League win in midweek, have dropped just four league points this term collecting 38 points from a possible 42.
"It's one game more and we won," Guardiola said afterwards. "We dominated possession and, in the first half, we were very strong mentally after (last Saturday's 3-0 win at) Dortmund and the trip to Moscow.
"In the second half we didn't manage to bring (striker) Mario Mandzukic into the game, but at the end, I am happy with the performance."
Read more: Bayern honor president persecuted by Nazis
Second-place Leverkusen posted a resounding 3-0 victory over second-from-bottom Nurnberg thanks to two goals from the promising young South Korean striker Son Heung-min and one from Stefan Kiessling.
The result was a welcome return to winning ways for Sami Hyppia's side who were on the receiving end of a 5-0 walloping from Manchester United in the Champions League on Wednesday.
The win sees Leverkusen move up to 34 points.
Third-place Borussia Dortmund also kept in touch with a 3-1 away to Mainz in a game which was goalless with 20 minutes to go.
Dortmund striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang opened the scoring in the 70th minute before Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting leveled for the home side from the penalty spot four minutes later.
But two spot kicks from Robert Lewandowski saw the visitors home. The first was awarded in the 78th minute after Mainz midfielder Elkin Soto was shown a red card for using his hand to stop the ball going over the goal line. Lewandowski netted his second in injury time to seal three points.
The win keeps Jurgen Klopp's men in third on 31 points, six points clear of fourth-place Monchengladbach who face Freiburg on Sunday.
In the bottom half of the table, Hoffenheim and Werder Bremen played out an entertaining 4-4 draw, while the game between mid-table Hertha Berlin and Augsburg ended goalless.
Arsenal move seven points clear
Meanwhile in the English Premier League, Arsenal extended their lead at the top of the table with a 3-0 win at Cardiff City.
Welsh international Aaron Ramsey scored a brace and Mathieu Flamini added the other as Arsene Wenger's side move up to 31 points from 13 games, seven clear of Liverpool and Chelsea who both play on Sunday -- away to Hull City and home to Southampton respectively.
Everton moved up level on points with their Merseyside rivals thanks to a 4-0 hammering of Stoke City at Goodison Park. Gerard Deulofeu opened the scoring on the stroke of halftime before providing a cross for Seamus Coleman who made it 2-0 four minutes after the break.
Bryan Oviedo added a third nine minutes later with Romelu Lukaku scoring his eighth goal in nine league games in the 79th minute.
Norwich City move up to 14th after beating bottom side Crystal Palace 1-0 at Carrow Road, but fellow strugglers Fulham remain in the bottom three after a 3-0 defeat at the hands of West Ham United at Upton Park.
The game between Aston Villa and Sunderland finished goalless.
Both Manchester clubs are in action Sunday. David Moyes' United, which is expected to include a now 40-year-old Ryan Giggs, travel to Tottenham Hotspur while City will be looking for another barnstorming performance at the Etihad Stadium when they host Swansea City.
Read more: Ryan Giggs: Fit, 40 and still firing
Read more: Belounis says Qatar deserves World Cup
