Dani Pedrosa took his first Moto GP win of the season after teammate Casey Stoner crashed on the final lap at the German MotoGP.
Defending world champion Stoner was battling with his Repsol Honda colleague Pedrosa at the Sachsenring before sliding off his bike prior to the final few corners.
The Australian's error handed Jorge Lorenzo second place and means he now leads the world championship standings by 16 points from Pedrosa.
Stoner slipped to third and was distraught to have thrown away a winning position. He told the BBC: "I'm pretty disappointed, I had planned to go for my 'win or bin' effort in the last corner not that one!
"I felt confident but as soon as I tried to turn in a little more, the front went. I was already off the brakes and not in the hard braking area, as soon as I eased of the brakes I guess the weight came off the front and down I went.
"I'm frustrated I wasn't allowed to get up and try and score some points, the bike was perfect, but the marshals pushed me away.
"If we can continue this momentum for the rest of the season then we shouldn't be so worried for the championship."
It was Pedrosa's third consecutive German MotoGP victory and he was quickest off the blocks, beating Stoner, who started on pole, to the first corner from third spot.
Stoner did reclaim the lead by the end of the opening lap and as the race went on, the pair pulled away from Lorenzo who was a full eight seconds back.
But Stoner lost his front wheel going into to one of the final turns and ended up unhurt on the gravel, ensuring a smooth last few corners for Pedrosa.
After the race the Spaniard told reporters: "At the start I wasn't comfortable because of changes to my bike. As I became used to all the changes I passed Casey, and was feeling good.
"Towards the end I had to fight for the win, on the last lap I was racing at my maximum."
The next race on the MotoGP calendar takes place in Italy on July 15.
MotoGP standings:
1. Jorge Lorenzo (Spa) Yamaha 160 points
2. Dani Pedrosa (Spa) Honda 146 points
3. Casey Stoner (Aus) Honda 140 points
4. Andrea Dovizioso (Ita) Yamaha 92 points
5. Cal Crutchlow (GBR) Yamaha 85 points
