(CNN Student News) -- February 18, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Port-au-Prince, Haiti • Miami, Florida • West Valley City, Utah
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: One year after it became law, what is the reaction to the government's stimulus program? I'm Carl Azuz, and this is CNN Student News!
First Up: Stimulus One Year Later
AZUZ: An absolute success that's created or saved millions of jobs. A massive waste that has raised the country's debt. Two opinions on the very same subject: the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Most folks just call it the stimulus plan. It was passed one year ago yesterday with a price tag of around $787 billion. That has since been re-estimated at $862 billion. The goal was to boost the country's economy by cutting taxes and through government spending. And that is exactly what President Obama says the stimulus has done.
U.S. PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: One year later it is largely thanks to the Recovery Act that a second Depression is no longer a possibility. It's one of the main reasons the economy has gone from shrinking by 6 percent to growing at about 6 percent. So far, the Recovery Act is responsible for the jobs of about two million Americans who would otherwise be unemployed.
AZUZ: But other people disagree. In a recent CNN poll, nearly three-quarters of the people surveyed think that at least half of the stimulus money spent so far has been wasted. Earlier this week, Republican Representative John Boehner, the House minority leader, said that people, "aren't getting their money's worth from the trillion-dollar 'stimulus,' and struggling families and small businesses are rightly asking 'Where are the jobs?'"
Blog Promo
AZUZ: So in your view, has the stimulus worked? Got a few comments for you. Sean is saying: "Without it, we would be struggling in an even deeper recession." From Leisha: "What stimulus? Well, we have seen only more jobs cut and more schools closed in my state." And Sabrina writes that "the process takes a long time, so maybe the key points just haven't been fully recognized." What do you say? Blog with us from A to Z at CNNStudentNews.com.
Toyota Troubles
AZUZ: Another story we are following for you today: Toyota -- Japanese carmaker -- says it's going to hire more quality control workers, do more testing, and get an outside agency to help fix its cars' problems. The news comes in the middle of a massive recall of more than 8 million Toyota vehicles worldwide. Problems include sudden acceleration brake pedal issues, and some new complaints -- Toyota says fewer than a hundred -- involve the steering in some Corollas, Toyota's second-most popular model. Later this month, the U.S. Congress is planning hearings to ask Toyota about safety. The company says it will cooperate, and its president has repeatedly apologized.
AKIO TOYODA, TOYOTA PRESIDENT [TRANSLATED]: Toyota is not perfect. But when we find a problem or are made aware of it, we act as quickly as possible. We are sincerely working on that. As VP Sasaki said, we never covered anything up or ignored any problems. I hope you understand this.
TSA Swabs
AZUZ: Get your boarding pass. Check in your luggage. Put out your palms. What? That last one could be what some air travelers hear. The Transportation Security Administration is trying out a new safety check, scanning passengers' hands for traces of explosives. Experts say there's a better chance of finding these kinds of materials if you check someone's hands rather than checking baggage. The goal, of course, is to help increase airline security. The government says that part of the way it does that is by using different kinds of technology, like these hand swabs. A privacy expert says this policy shouldn't violate passengers' privacy as long as the scans are conducted randomly.
Fast Facts
MATT CHERRY, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for some fast facts! Haiti and the Dominican Republic make up the Caribbean island of Hispaniola. Spain controlled the island for a time, but Haiti became a French colony in 1697. The nation gained its independence from France in 1804. Today, Haiti is home to about 9 million people, and its capital is Port-au-Prince.
Haiti Update
AZUZ: France controlled Haiti for more than a century, but this week marked the first time that a French president ever visited the country. Nicolas Sarkozy, whom you see on the left here, was in Haiti yesterday. President Sarkozy met with Haitian leaders and toured some of the areas damaged by last month's earthquake. The French president was expected to announce an aid program for Haiti during his visit. This has been the scene at the airport in Port-au-Prince: planes being used to bring in relief supplies. That could change on Friday, though. American Airlines says it will start flying passenger planes into Haiti. All passenger flights were stopped after the quake hit. One company official said that offering transportation to and from the country will be a major step toward helping Haiti rebuild.
Haiti Survivor Story
AZUZ: Some Haitians have already left the country; they were evacuated to hospitals in the U.S. One of them, a classical musician, had injuries that could have affected his career. But as John Zarrella tells us, a gift from an American singer will help him keep making music.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
JOHN ZARRELLA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: For 18 hours, Romel Joseph lay buried in the rubble of his music school in Port-au-Prince. For 18 hours until his rescue, the concert violinist stayed alert and alive going over in his head, one by one, every concerto at every concert hall he'd ever played. Romel was badly broken. His legs crushed, bones in his left hand shattered. But the concrete that covered him would not, could not kill him.
ROMEL JOSEPH, VIOLINIST: I thought my time was up under the ground, and God says no, you have things to do.
ZARRELLA: Three weeks ago, we met Romel, who is legally blind, for the first time. He mentioned he'd like a keyboard to help strengthen the fingers in his left hand so that some day he could again play the violin. Stevie Wonder heard and answered Romel's request.
STEVIE WONDER, SINGER/SONGWRITER: What better way to really express our God's love than to give something that is special to you to someone else who is in need. So, that's why I did what I did.
ZARRELLA: Wonder's keyboard was packed and shipped, arriving Tuesday at Miami's Jackson Memorial Hospital. Romel didn't know it was on the way.
ZARRELLA: Romel.
JOSEPH: Yes, sir.
ZARRELLA: Hey, John Zarrella from CNN. How are you?
JOSEPH: Oh, my goodness.
ZARRELLA: It's so good to see you again. You look terrific. I think we have something for you.
JOSEPH: Oh, it came?
ZARRELLA: It came. It's coming in the door right now.
JOSEPH: Oh, my goodness.
ZARRELLA: Now, who sent this to you? Stevie Wonder.
JOSEPH: Oh.
ZARRELLA: As the keyboard was set up, Romel was carefully moved to a wheelchair.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The chair is over here.
JOSEPH: OK.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So, I'm going to have you go sideways. Keep your legs on the bed.
ZARRELLA: He sat over the keyboard, his legs, one held together with metal rods, resting on pillows.
JOSEPH: I'll play something.
ZARRELLA: He began to play. Of course, a Stevie Wonder song. Even the fingers on his damaged left hand glided across the keys with a gentle touch. Romel will be out of the hospital soon. When that happens, he'd like nothing more than to play a concert for Haiti. He on the violin and Stevie Wonder on the keyboard.
JOSEPH: I mean, you know, nothing is impossible.
(END VIDEO)
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mr. DeWerff's American History class at Pawnee High School in Pawnee, Illinois! How far above the Earth's surface is the international space station? Is it: A) 100 miles, B) 250 miles, C) 375 miles or D) 1,000 miles? You've got three seconds -- GO! The international space station orbits the Earth from an altitude of about 250 miles. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Room with a View
AZUZ: The astronauts on that station have a brand new window to the world -- seven of them, actually. It's a new part of the ISS that was installed during a spacewalk yesterday, the third and last planned spacewalk of space shuttle Endeavour's mission to the international space station. You can see the window covers opening up here. They're on a cupola, the top part of a new section of the ISS. And this is the view it gives: Earth from 250 miles up. That center window is about 32 inches across. The cupola, designed to give astronauts a better view of spacewalks and other activities outside the ISS.
Facebook Promo
AZUZ: Well, the big night is tonight. I will be live on Facebook, 7:00 p.m. Eastern, 4:00 p.m. Pacific, answering your questions. Log on and ask away! The address: Facebook.com/CNNStudentNews.
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go, this might qualify as a half-baked idea. Everything seems calm at first, but then -- please, y'all, there's enough cake to go around. There's actually a matrimonial method to this madness. That is because one of these lucky ladies ended the day with a proposal: her boyfriend using the ring that she found in that cake. It's valued at around $3,100, which makes this a true karat cake.
Goodbye
AZUZ: Finding the ring is awesome. The on-the-spot proposal, just the frosting on the cake. CNN Student News returns tomorrow, but we hope to hear from you tonight at Facebook! I'm Carl Azuz.
