(CNN)Is it an April Fool's gag or flame-grilled brilliance?  We'll have to wait until April 1 to find out.
Burger King ads in Japan promise a limited-edition perfume for April Fool's Day to make you smell like a couple of all-beef patties.
The name may lose something in translation, but Flame-Grilled Fragrance will sell for 5,000 yen (about $41) and comes with a free Whopper.  How's that for an offer?
It's a one-day sale, according to Burger King, and only available at stores in Japan.  Sorry, rest of the world.
Burger King did this a few years back in the United States with the fragrance Flame.
Flame was billed as "the scent of seduction with a hint of flame-broiled meat."  Yep, pretty much says it all.
If that doesn't get your senses sizzling or whet your appetite for seduction, there are plenty of others -- what shall we call them -- interesting scents that have been available in recent years.
Here are some of our favorites.  We haven't sampled them, we just like the names.
1. bacōn by fargginay -- because everything's better with bacon
2. Cannabis Santal Eau de Parfum -- when you want to smell like pot, but don't want to have the munchies.
3. Secretions Magnifique from Etat Libre d'Orange -- when you want to smell like "blood, sweat, sperm and saliva."  Let's move on.
4. Eau De Pizza Hut -- Pizza Hut Canada released this a few years ago when it reached 100,000 Facebook fans.
5. Kiss cologne spray -- when you want to rock 'n' roll all night and not smell like it all day.
6. Dirt by the Demeter Fragrance Library -- we're guessing this one has an earthy smell.
7. Patton men's cologne -- brought to you by the U.S. Army.  This is what you what to smell like when you're ready to take on the world, or at least the Nazis.
8. Lobster by the Demeter Fragrance Library -- you'll come out of your shell with this scent.  Don't forget the drawn butter.
9. Eau de Stilton -- the folks that make the UK's famous blue cheese came up with this one.  We're looking for a crackers cologne to pair it with.
CNN's Junko Ogura and Brian Walker contributed to this report
