The 28-year-old victim of an acid attack was released Sunday from a Portland, Oregon, hospital, a nursing supervisor said, nearly a week after an unknown assailant threw a cup of the caustic liquid in her face.
Bethany Storro was released from Legacy Emanuel Hospital, where she had undergone surgery for her injuries after the attack last Monday, according to the supervisor, who declined to give her name.
Storro credits a new pair of sunglasses -- bought just 20 minutes before the attack -- with saving her eyesight.
"God is watching over me," Storro, of Vancouver, Washington, told CNN affiliate KATU in Portland, Oregon, last week. "I believe in him. That his hands are on me and I can't live the rest of my life like that -- in fear. I can't let what she did to me wreck my life."
Vancouver police say they are looking for the assailant, described as an African-American woman with an athletic build and slicked-back hair pulled into a pony tail. A composite sketch of the suspect was released last week.
Storro told KATU that she had stopped at a Starbucks about 7:15 p.m. Monday, just after she had gone back to buy a pair of sunglasses that she had seen earlier. The woman walked up to her and said, "Hey pretty girl, do you want to drink this?"
When Storro declined, the woman threw the contents of the cup in her face and ran off.
Storro said she spoke about the attack because she wants people to see what the woman did to her and to help authorities find the woman before she assaults someone else.
The attack bears similarities to a 2008 case in London, England. Katie Piper, a young model and television presenter, was leaving her apartment in a London suburb when she was attacked by a stranger waiting for her with a cup of sulfuric acid. The liquid burned the skin on her face, neck, chest and hands. She was also left blinded in one eye.
Her assailant was asked by Piper's former boyfriend, Danny Lynch, to throw the acid on her face because she ended their short relationship. Both the assailant, Stefan Sylvestre, and Lynch are serving time in prison for the attack.
CNN's Greg Morrison contributed to this report.
