(CNN Student News) -- March 3, 2014
In today's show, we explain how tensions have escalated in Ukraine, how sudden rain for a drought-stricken state made some matters worse, and how NASA plans to keep closer tabs on global weather. We also kick off Women's History Month with a report about a young woman who's making sports history at her high school.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What images of natural disasters are most effective in a news broadcast? How can journalists ensure the images they choose are appropriate?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Crimea
2. mudslides
3. Global Precipitation Measurement
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. In what southern region of Ukraine is there strong support for Russia? What happened there over the weekend? How did the U.S. respond? How did Russia address this issue?
2. What kind of satellite did NASA and Japan's Aerospace Exploration Agency recently launch? What makes it unique? How much did it cost? How long is it designed to last?
3. Who is Julia Ernst? How is she making history at her high school? How does she say some young men respond to the challenge of wrestling her?
Discussion Questions:
1. What unique challenges might face a nation like Ukraine, whose people are deeply divided about their country's future? Can you think of potential diplomatic solutions to the situation there? In your view, should the international community get involved? If so, to what extent? If not, why not?
2. In what different ways might residents respond to a mandatory evacuation of their homes? Why do you think some choose to stay? What risks might they face if they do so?
3. How would you define "trailblazer"? What challenges might be experienced by a female competitor in a male-dominated sport? Why might male wrestlers respond in different ways to the challenge of competing against Julia Ernst? What lessons do you think she has learned from her wins (and losses)?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
