He has a habit of producing the goods at the season's finale, and 2014 was no different for Henrik Stenson as he successfully defended his DP World Tour Championship Sunday.
Coming into the tournament in Dubai, Stenson was still searching for his maiden win of the year, having suffered near misses at both the BMW International Open and Volvo World Match Play Championship.
A closing two-under-par 70 at Jumeirah Golf Estates, however, ensured that the Swede not only ended that long wait, but it also provided him with a first title defense of his career.
The 38-year-old landed the European Tour's DP World Tour Championship last year to help tie up the Race to Dubai, while also securing the PGA's own season-ending Tour Championship which brought with it the FedEx Cup.
But while Sunday's victory was not enough to claim the Race to Dubai for a second year running -- Rory McIlroy was confirmed as the winner earlier this month -- Stenson was still able to prove once more that he is the man to come good at the year's climax.
"It feels great. I'm exhausted to say the least," Stenson told the European Tour's official website.
"I had a couple of close calls this year to get my win and it was not to be. It's been close but eventually you get something if you stick around and I surely did that."
Stenson had found himself in real trouble after the 11th hole Sunday, having hit his tee shot out of bounds, enabling Spain's Rafael Cabrera-Bello to take a two-shot lead.
The Swede fought back, though, and a superb tee shot on the 17th led to a tap-in birdie, allowing him to reclaim the lead.
Another birdie on the 18th ensured he finished two shots clear of McIlroy, Justin Rose and Victor Dubuisson, who shared second spot.
"It was hot out there and tricky on the back nine. I did not play my best and had a shocking hole on 11," Stenson said.
"I walked up to the tee with too much club in my hand and instead of changing I tried to cut a two-iron but hit a push, slice, shank straight into the buildings.
"That knocked me back but I did not give up. I just had to dig in there and wait for something to happen."
Sunday's triumph is set to move Stenson up to second in the world rankings behind McIlroy, who has enjoyed a season to remember.
And looking ahead to 2015, the Swede has set his sights on finally securing the elusive No. 1 berth, as well as landing a maiden major title.
"It would be nice to have been ranked the world's best at some point," he said.
"But if I had the choice I would go for a major championship, so I am going to try and be in good shape for them next year."
