(CNN)  -- Inter Milan coach Jose Mourinho claims Barcelona's "obsession" with winning the Champions League on the ground of their arch-rivals Real Madrid will hinder their chances of beating his side in their semifinal second showdown.
Inter hold a 3-1 lead going into Wednesday's match at the Nou Camp and Mourinho could not resist a pre-match swipe at the Catalan giants, who would become the first side to retain the Champions League in its present format.
But Mourinho, an acknowledged master in pre-match "mind games", is convinced that the pressure of expectation will work against last season's triple winners.
"We have a team of older players, with many over 30, and we hope that we will be able to cope with the atmosphere. It is one thing, though, to follow a dream and it is another to have an obsession," he told gathered reporters.
Schalke's Magath set to work a new miracle
"For Barca it is an obsession," added Mourinho, who was accompanied by tight security as he returned to the club where he began his coaching career under Bobby Robson.
"A dream is more pure than an obsession, an obsession is more about pride. Barca achieved a dream winning the Champions League in Paris and Rome last year but this time it is more about Madrid and playing at the Santiago Bernabeu, this is an obsession."
Mourinho, who claimed the Champions League during his spell at Portuguese giants Porto, realizes that Inter are also desperate to triumph in Europe's premier club competition having last won it in 1965.
"I can't say for me it is a personal dream as I have won it before but I want to win it for Inter as it is more than 40 years since they got to the final.
"If I can help Mr Moratti (the Inter president), if I can help the players and if I can contribute a little bit as coach to achieve this dream then I would be very happy."
Inter will be without the suspended Dejan Stankovic but Mourinho indicated that he would likely take a gamble on key midfielder Wesley Sneijder, who has a slight hamstring strain.
"We will see if he can play for 90 minutes as there is still a small problem. We have other important games in the league but I am ready to risk him as everything will be decided tomorrow," said Mourinho.
Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola said his team were merely focused on earning a final clash against Bayern Munich, who beat Lyon 4-0 on aggregate in the first semifinal.
"It's a game of football, not a magic night, and we have to be ourselves -- we will go out and try to generate as many chances as we always do," he said.
"We don't know if we are capable of turning this around, but we will give everything against a great team to try and get to the final," he added.
