(CNN)  -- France captain Thierry Henry says he considered quitting international football over the handball controversy as Les Bleus qualified for the World Cup finals at the expense of Ireland last week.
Henry told the French sports paper L'Equipe that he felt "truly alone" as the row raged over his blatant handball to assist William Gallas for the winning goal in the playoff match with the Irish at the Stade de France.
The Barcelona striker faced a barrage of criticism at home and abroad and admits he questioned his future in French colors.
"Yes, I asked myself the question.
"Without the support of my family, I perhaps would not have made the same decision.
"But I will always fight to the end - even if what just happened will be engraved. You can always forgive but you cannot always forget."
FIFA must act after Henry handball goal
Henry revealed that he had little support from his own federation and as the row raged decided, with the help of his lawyer, to issue a statement in which he said that a replay of the second leg would be the "fairest solution."
It came hours after world governing body FIFA had turned down Irish appeals for a second chance.
"After the game, and even for the next two days, I felt alone, truly alone," Henry claimed.
"It was only after I sent my statement that people from the French federation appeared."
The 32-year-old, who forged his reputation in a glittering clear at English Premier League Arsenal, is France's record scorer with 51 goals and will be a key player in the World Cup finals in South Africa.
"Despite everything that has happened, the fact of feeling abandoned, I do not let go of (playing for) my country," he added.
But Henry was repentant over his celebration with teammates after referee Martin Hansson had waived away Irish appeals to award the goal.
"I should not have done it," he said.
"But frankly, it was uncontrollable. After all that had happened... yes, I regret it. That's why right after I spoke with the Irish one by one."
France, runners-up to Italy at the 2006 World Cup, will go into the draw for the finals in South Africa on December 4 as one of eight-seeded teams.
