Don't tell Brad Pitt who or how to love.
Brad Pitt talks about "soul mate" Angelina Jolie, life, and fatherhood in Parade magazine.
The actor and star of the new film "Inglourious Basterds" opened up to Parade magazine about his thoughts on love, marriage and fatherhood.
During the candid interview, Pitt showed off a secret area in one of his homes which he said "is a great place for sex" and reflected on his early days in Hollywood, which included superstardom and some marijuana.
"I liked to smoke a bit of grass at the time, and I became very sheltered," Pitt told Parade. "Then I got bored. I was turning into a damn doughnut, really."
These days, Pitt said he's happy with his decision to become a parent with partner Angelina Jolie. The two have six children, all younger than 10: Maddox, Pax, Zahara, Shiloh and twins Vivienne Marcheline and Knox, the latter born last year.
"This family is full of life," Pitt said. "There are laughs, aggravations, irritations, but at the end of the day, it's fun. When life is really good, it's messy."
Pitt said his life is very different now that he is a dad.
"When I go down a path, I take it to the end," he said. "Then I take another one. I took the path of not having kids, now it's time for family. Children are a dominant value in my life now, and they weren't before."
He's found a "soul mate" in Jolie, Pitt said, but he insisted he meant what he has said in the past about not marrying her.
"When someone asked me why Angie and I don't get married, I replied, 'Maybe we'll get married when it's legal for everyone else,' " he said. "I stand by that, although I took a lot of flak for saying it, hate mail from religious groups. I believe everyone should have the same rights."
Pitt told Parade he takes exception to anyone trying to dictate how someone should live and who they should love.
"Just the other night, I heard this TV reverend say that Angie and I were setting a bad example because we were living out of wedlock, and people should not be duped by us," Pitt told the magazine. "It made me laugh.
"What damn right does anyone have to tell someone else how to live if they're not hurting anyone? How many times do you think real love comes to someone in a lifetime? If you're lucky, maybe two or three."
People should be able to be happy, Pitt said, and that includes his children.
"Would it bother me if a child of mine turns out to be gay? No, not one bit," he said. "Listen, I want my kids to live the lives they want to live. I want them to be fulfilled. I hope I teach my kids to be who they really are."
