Halle Berry and the father of her daughter settled their differences in family court Thursday, a week after a driveway brawl with Berry's fiancé landed the dad in jail.
"From all counsel, the parties have reached an amicable agreement. There will be no further statements regarding this matter," said a printed statement shown to reporters by Berry attorney Blair Berk.
The agreement ended a private session at a Los Angeles County courthouse among Berk, ex-boyfriend Gabriel Aubry and his lawyer, Shawn Holley, Thursday afternoon. The actress did not attend.
While the lawyers would not elaborate on what the agreement covers, the fiancé, Olivier Martinez, and Aubry, have each taken legal action against the other after the Thanksgiving Day scuffle at Berry's Hollywood Hills home.
Berry's legal battle
Martinez had Aubry arrested, accusing him of battery, while Aubry filed for a restraining order against Martinez, saying he started the fight.
Berry obtained an order banning Aubry from having contact with her or 4-year-old Nahla.
Berry, 46, and Aubry, 37, have been engaged in a bitter legal fight over custody of Nahla since their five-year romance ended in 2010. The battle heated up last year after the Oscar-winning actress announced her engagement to Martinez and asked a family court to allow her to move with the daughter to Paris.
Aubry, in a sworn statement that helped him gain a temporary restraining order against Martinez on Monday, said the fight was apparently motivated by the custody battle, which Berry recently lost.
Berry, who pays Aubry child support under the shared custody agreement, was told she cannot move to Paris with the child unless Aubry goes there as well.
In his statement, Aubry said: "While he was attacking me physically, Mr. Martinez said to me in an aggressive and threatening voice, 'You cost us $3 million. When you see the judge, you're going to tell him you're going to Paris or I'm going to kill you. You're going to Paris, you're going to get your 20 grand a month in child support. From now on you're going to do drop-offs on the street.'"
Aubry's lawyer attached several photos to the filing to show his blackened, swollen eyes, cut lip and bruised face.
Aubry was treated at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center for a fractured rib and several bruises on his face and forehead, and he required stitches to repair three cuts in his mouth, the filing said.
Berry: I'm so glad I waited to have Nahla
