Goals from Gonzalo Higuain and, who else, Cristiano Ronaldo helped Real Madrid claim their first trophy of the season on Wednesday night against arch rivals Barcelona, who had to play for more than an hour with ten men after Adriano was shown a straight red card in the 27th minute.
Barcelona had won the first leg 3-2, but Madrid's pair of away goals proved vital as their 2-1 win at the Bernabeau handed them the title on away goals. The Catalan side have won the last three Supercups.
Madrid showed they had recovered from their poor start to the league season with an incredible opening spell that overwhelmed their opponents.
Gonzalo Higuain got the stadium rocking with a goal in the 11th minute, as he latched on to a hopeful long ball that Barcelona defender Javier Mascherano completely misjudged, and fired past a helpless Victor Valdes.
Barely seven minutes later Madrid doubled their lead. Another long ball caused panic among the Barcelona defence - this time the normally impeccable Gerard Pique was at fault -- and Ronaldo was perfectly placed to make the most of the chaos.
The Portuguese striker flicked a delightful ball over Pique before dispatching the ball into Valdes' bottom corner to leave the Barcelona defense in shell shock.
Ten minutes later, Barcelona's capitulation was complete as Adriano, playing out of position at left back after a pre match injury to Dani Alves forced Jordi Alba to switch flanks with the Brazilian, was shown a deserved red card for hauling down Ronaldo as he broke through on goal.
On the stroke of half time, Lionel Messi hauled his side back in to the tie with an incredible 28 yard free kick that whistled past Iker Casillas on its way into the top corner.
Barcelona improved in the second half, but couldn't find a way through a resolute Madrid defense.
Even when they did break through the back four, Spain captain Iker Casillas showed why he is one of the most respected goalkeepers in the world with a series of outstanding saves.
With ten minutes to go, Real manager introduced $50m signing Luka Modric for his debut following his move from Tottenham Hotspur.
