Tiger Woods is looking to the familiarity of home as he continues his search for a first full-field tournament win in over two years.
The former world No. 1 has announced he will play three PGA Tour events in the next month, including the Honda Classic in Florida for the first time in his professional career.
The tournament is held in Palm Beach Gardens, which is near the 14-time major champion's home on Jupiter Island -- where he moved last year after his 2010 breakup with ex-wife Elin Nordegren following the scandal about his extramarital affairs.
"I've heard great things about the Honda Classic," Woods told his website. "Now that I live there, I want to play whenever possible."
He missed the cut as a 17-year-old amateur in 1993 when the tournament -- which since 2007 has benefited the children's charity of golf legend Jack Nicklaus -- was played at the Weston Hills course.
"Jack's involvement in the tournament and the benefits to the local community are also important," Woods said of the March 1-4 event.
Its current venue, the PGA National, is rated as one of the toughest courses on the U.S. circuit.
"We obviously are thrilled to have Tiger Woods play," tournament director Ken Kennerly told the tour's website. "We have worked hard for five years to make this one of the premier events on the PGA Tour.
"This is a testament to where the tournament has come, and a testament to Honda's 31 years as the longest-standing sponsor on the PGA Tour."
World No. 18 Woods, who slipped out of the top 50 last year, will also line up at next week's WGC Accenture Match Play Championship in Arizona next week -- an event he has won three times.
After the Honda Classic, Woods will stay in Florida for the WGC Cadillac Championship a week later, where he has tasted victory on a record eight occasions.
Woods will be in illustrious company at Doral, with world No. 1 Luke Donald and 2011 U.S. Open winner Rory McIlroy both confirming their attendance on Tuesday.
The American has shown signs of returning to form in recent times, finishing tied for third at the Abu Dhabi Golf Championship last month and winning the Chevron World Challenge event he hosts in December.
"I'm excited about my start and look forward to keep building," said the 36-year-old, whose last tour-sanctioned win was in Australia in November 2009.
"I've made great strides from last year and hopefully all my hard work will pay off with a victory soon."
