A man wounded Friday when a gunman opened fire at passing vehicles along a downtown street in Hollywood has died, a spokeswoman at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles said Monday.
John Atterberry died shortly before 5 p.m. Monday, according to Simi Singer, the hospital spokeswoman.
The music-industry executive was shot in the jaw at Sunset Boulevard and Vine Street.
The gunman, 26-year-old Tyler Brehm, went on the rampage that ended with his being fatally shot by police, Los Angeles police spokeswoman Sgt. Mitzi Fierro has said.
An amateur video captured the scene of Brehm walking down Sunset Boulevard wielding a handgun and firing at vehicles, seemingly at random. Brehm fired a "significant number" of rounds, police said.
He then returned to an intersection, where he was confronted by a plainclothes police detective and an off-duty police officer working on a nearby movie set, officials said.
"At that point the police ordered him to drop his weapon and he pointed his gun at the police and an officer-involved shooting occurred," Fierro said.
Brehm died later at a nearby hospital, according to a police statement.
Christopher Johns recorded much of the incident from his apartment window and can be heard shouting at Brehm throughout.
"Why don't you come up here?" he yelled, later telling CNN that he intended to distract the gunman.
At one point, Brehm spoke with Johns, asking him for ammunition and to call an ambulance.
Fierro said it appeared Johns could interact with the suspect without jeopardizing his safety.
"It appears from the video that he was able to distract the suspect and keep him from shooting at additional people before the police arrived," she said.
Police have not indicated that they know Brehm's motive.
Two others suffered minor injuries.
Witnesses were stunned by the shooting spree. Amy Torgeson told CNN affiliate KABC that vehicles began "swerving and braking," and she sought cover at a nearby bank.
"A car drove by and he just shot right into the car," Torgeson said. "He was just shooting everywhere."
CNN's Regina Graham contributed to this report.
