Northampton Saints winger Chris Ashton ran in four tries at Twickenham on Saturday as England thrashed Italy 59-13 in the RBS Six Nations Championship.
Ashton opened his, and England's account in the second minute when Toby Flood's pass sent him clear to score under the posts.
Italy managed to stay in touch with England with two Bergamasco penalties, but Ashton's second try in the 24th minute put daylight between the teams, which only increased as the match went on.
Mark Cueto and Mike Tindall both went over for tries themselves before the end of the first half as England racked up an impressive 31-6 lead by halftime.
Giants of European rugby clash for Six Nations
Italy succeeded in repelling England's surges for the first 10 minutes of the second half, but couldn't stop Ashton flying over for his third in the 53rd minute.
Four minutes later, substitute scrum-half Danny Care -- who replaced the impressive Ben Youngs -- went over for his third international try.
Fabio Ongaro scored Italy's only try of the match in the 69th minute, but it wasn't long before England were running riot again.
Flanker James Haskell scored two minutes later and Ashton added his fourth five minutes before time to complete a comprehensive victory for Martin Johnson's men.
The win puts England top of the Six Nations table ahead of Ireland's clash with 2010 grand slam champions France in Dublin on Sunday.
Why France are the Harvey Two-Face of world rugby
Italy, who host Wales later in the month, are still looking for their first points of the 2011 championship.
Wales bounced back after defeat to England on the opening weekend, beating Scotland 24-6 at Murrayfield.
Winger Shane Williams got Wales off to the perfect start as he touched down under the posts after an incisive run through the Scottish defence by fly-half James Hook.
Hook duly converted the try and then kicked three penalties to hand Warren Gatland's team a 16-0 lead after 21 minutes.
Scotland got their first points on the board ten minutes later, courtesy of fly-half Dan Parks' boot to leave Scotland trailing 16-3 at halftime.
Parks kicked another penalty midway through the second half, but another James Hook penalty in the 64th minute restored Wales' lead.
Williams' second try of the match five minutes later condemning Scotland to the second defeat of their Six Nations campaign.
Wales face Italy in their next match in two weeks time, while Scotland play host to Ireland.
