AC Milan's chances of retaining their Serie A took a knock on Saturday as they went down to a shock 2-1 defeat to Fiorentina in the San Siro.
The loss was capitalized on by nearest rivals Juventus who beat Palermo 2-0 in the evening kick-off to return to the top of the table.
Two second-half goals, the first by centre-back Leonardo Bonucci in the 56th minute and Fabio Quagliarella 13 minutes later, mean Juve go one point clear.
Earlier, Brazilian-born striker Amauri fired home in the 89th minute to seal a dramatic win for the Fiorentina.
Zlatan Ibrahimovic opened the scoring for Milan in the 31st minute, stroking home from the penalty spot after Maxi Lopez was fouled by Matija Nastastic.
But Fiorentina responded with a goal of their own two minutes after the break when Lorenzo Di Silvestri played in Stevan Jovetic who shot past goalkeeper Christain Abbiati.
Amauri's late winner sees Fiorentina move up to 15th place.
The defeat caps a disappointing week for Milan after they were eliminated from the Champions League by Barcelona on Tuesday. The only bright spot on Saturday was the return of Antonio Cassano to the team following heart surgery.
"We need to accept the result in the knowledge that there are still a lot of matches left (seven) and everything is still wide open," said Milan coach Massimiliano Allegri.
"It's been a bad week with the defeat to Barcelona and this one but we have to regroup because there's still everything to play for," he added.
"We have to stay calm, we didn't expect to stumble here but we have to be even more fired up because of what we've wasted."
A 3-1 win for Udinese against Parma sees them move up into fourth ahead of Napoli who went down to a 3-1 defeat at third-placed Lazio.
Ghana midfielder Kwadwo Asamoah opened the scoring moments before the break with skipper Antonio Di Natale netting a second 11 minutes into the second half.
Parma pulled a goal back when Alessandro Lucarelli scored six minutes from time but Asamoah was on hand to grab his second of the match in injury time to make sure of the three points.
Sixth-placed Roma's bid for Champions League football next season was dented by a 4-2 defeat at relegation-threatened Lecce.
Inter Milan now trail Roma by two points after they grabbed a point in a 2-2 draw at Cagliari.
Cagliari were twice in front in the game thanks to goals from Daniele Astori and Mauricio Pinilla in the either half.
But goals Diego Milito and latterly from Esteban Cambiasso earned a draw for Inter.
