(CNN)Double Masters champion, seven-time PGA Tour winner... and now part-owner of his local Minor League baseball club. Bubba Watson is branching out.
After his first Masters victory in 2012, Watson recalled that his father had always hoped that he would become a baseball player rather than a golfer, and now he has done the next best thing by buying a stake in Florida outfit the Pensacola Blue Wahoos.
The Wahoos are based around 20 miles from Bagdad, the small town in which the extrovert golf star grew up.
But the 36-year-old -- who last year took batting practice with Wahoos players before their game against the Mobile BayBears -- was quick to stress that majority owners Quint and Rishy Studer wouldn't be letting him live out his dream of playing for the team.
In a Wahoos statement announcing the deal, Watson explained: "You won't see me out there in a uniform. I already asked, and they said I can't do that even if I own part of the team.
"Ever since I went to my first Blue Wahoos game, I have been a big fan. I love the atmosphere. It's such a great place to go with friends and family.
"There's something special about pulling for the hometown team. It's great that Quint and Rishy were willing to let me be a part of it, and I look forward to a long and exciting partnership with them.
"I just hope Quint doesn't get tired of my crazy ideas, because I have been known to have a few."
The Studers said they were delighted that Watson had come on board, with Quint Studer adding: "Rishy, Bubba and I all view the Wahoos as an investment in improving the quality of life for people.
"Together we will continue to create great experiences for all ages, make lifelong memories for our fans, be a super place to work and now, with Bubba's leadership, we will gain a national and international awareness for the Blue Wahoos and Northwest Florida."
Watson's arrival has already made a mark on the Wahoos' Pensacola Bayfront Stadium -- the bar and restaurant has been renamed Bubba's Sand Trap in his honour, and peckish fans will be able to enjoy a Bubba Dub Grilled Cheese,a sandwich that also includes hash browns.
The stadium's capacity of a little over 5,000 fans is regularly filled, and earlier this year the arena was ranked 12th in the top 100 U.S. sports venues and experiences by Stadium Journey magazine.
