Katy Perry is football's newest favorite pop star.
After attending her first college football game on October 4 (Ole Miss vs. Alabama), appearing on ESPN's "College GameDay" and sending a flirtatious message to Oklahoma Sooners quarterback Trevor Knight, pretty much the only thing left for Perry to do is take the field herself.
According to reports, Perry will come close to doing just that as the star of 2015's Super Bowl halftime show.
Katy Perry reportedly to perform at Super Bowl XLIX halftime
Neither Perry nor the NFL has commented on the speculation, and the singer herself seemed to downplay the idea during her appearance on "College GameDay."
"I'm not the kind of girl who would pay to play the Super Bowl," Perry said, referring to an August Wall Street Journal report suggesting that Perry, Rihanna and Coldplay were three of the acts in consideration for the opportunity but that the NFL was requesting they pay to take the stage.
The Journal noted that the request was met with a "chilly" response, as indicated by Perry's comment last week.
But by Friday, it seems someone's tune changed, with the New York Post's Page Six and Billboard reporting that Perry is preparing to shine at Super Bowl XLIX, set for February 1 in Glendale, Arizona.
It's not hard to see why the NFL would want to pursue Perry; if her much-talked-about performance happens, these are three reasons why we think she'd kill it.
1. She's got energetic, exuberant pop.
Katy Perry's music is essentially the stuff Super Bowl halftime dreams are made of. Much of her catalog is high-energy, danceable pop that's just cheeky enough to be entertaining without losing a sponsorship.
And she has a backlog of hits to choose from: There's "Birthday" and "Roar" from her 2013 release "Prism," plus older but still-in-rotation tracks like "Firework," "Peacock," "California Gurls" and "I Kissed A Girl."
2. Everyone from your grandma to your 3-year-old nephew knows her music.
In 2011, Katy Perry tied with Michael Jackson -- not bad company -- with five No. 1 singles from the same album. You don't accomplish that without some serious fan power, young and old.
And when we say young, we mean young: "Dark Horse" has been known to soothe at least one baby.
3. She gives a show-stopping performance.
One of the things critics took away from Perry's 2012 concert documentary, "Part of Me," is that just much work goes into a Perry performance. From the costumes to the set pieces, Perry creates her own whimsical wonderland -- as anyone who's seen one of her videos can attest. We can only imagine the kind of creation that would accompany a Super Bowl halftime show.
