Golf's $10 million jackpot is well and truly up for grabs this weekend after the FedExCup series pacesetters faltered in Friday's second round.
Five players are guaranteed to take home the loot if they can claim the Tour Championship's additional $1.44 million first prize on Sunday, but it was Adam Scott who moved into pole position at the halfway stage.
The Australian started the week 19th in the PGA Tour's standings, but a five-under-par 65 at East Lake gave him a one-shot tournament lead and catapulted him into top spot in the end-of-season playoffs.
Webb Simpson, who leads the FedEx standings, was tied for 19th after his 70 -- which dropped him below Scott in the projected points. He bounced back from four early bogeys with a late birdie and an eagle.
"I've got to win and I imagine Webb must have to finish pretty low to give me a chance," Scott, who birdied the last two holes for the second day in a row, told the PGA Tour website.
"I just figured if I win this week, I'll be happy no matter what. I'll finish what I think has been a really good season, moving in the right direction with everything, and look forward to next season."
Veteran Korean K.J. Choi matched the resurgent Scott, who has bloomed since taking on Tiger Woods' former caddy Steve Williams.
Choi went into the weekend on seven-under 133 to be one shot clear of another in-form Australian, Jason Day, and world No. 1 Luke Donald.
"You never know what can happen in the next two days," said Choi, who regularly donates part of his winnings to charities.
"You know, if I were able to win that money ... I could put the money to good use through my foundation. But there's still two days left, so all I can do is try to finish it out and hope for the best."
Donald was the best of the top five as the Englishman carded 68, one shot worse than Day.
Big-hitting Bubba Watson burst into contention with a 64 to be tied for fifth with first-round leader Keegan Bradley, Bill Haas (67) and Hunter Mahan (68).
Bradley, who won his first major at nearby Atlanta Athletic Club six weeks ago, followed up his opening 64 with a 71.
Fellow American Jason Dufner, who he beat in a playoff at the PGA Championship, was another shot back on 136 after a 70.
No. 2 Dustin Johnson suffered two double bogeys in his 73 to fall to a tie for 26th in the 30-man field to a projected fourth overall.
England's No. 3 Justin Rose was in a group of three at the bottom of the heap after a 75 dented his hopes.
