(CNN Student News ) -- November 1, 2013
As the week ends and a new month begins, CNN Student News reports on stories from Syria to the U.S. to Portugal. We cover a change in when and how U.S. airline passengers will be allowed to use electronic devices, and we pay tribute to Major League Baseball's newest champions. Plus, we explain what exactly we're "falling back" to this weekend.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why do you think that some sports receive more media coverage than others?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. Which of these is not considered a vital sign: blood pressure, breathing, consciousness, or pulse?
2. What part of the U.S. government has oversight of presidential appointments through advice and consent?
3. What European city hosted an NFL game on October 27?
4. Who was the captain of the Queen Anne's Revenge?
5. The U.S. stock market crash that contributed to the Great Depression occurred on October 29 of what year?
6. What Major League Baseball team won this year's World Series?
7. Under what strait does a newly opened tunnel connect Europe to Asia?
8. What civil war-torn country is following an international agreement to destroy its chemical weapons?
9. What city is hosting the 2014 Winter Olympic Games?
10. In what year did the Soviet Union collapse, bringing the Cold War era to an end?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
Europe
Portugal
North America
Massachusetts
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
