In the hunt for the world's best amusement park, the people have spoken -- and it seems the people like mixing with creatures who eat a lot of fish.
Travel review site TripAdvisor has revealed its new rankings of the the best amusement and water parks around the world, with the winners in both categories both featuring marine life attractions.
Discovery Cove, a sprawling aquatic complex in Orlando, Florida where visitors can swim with dolphins and snorkel with tropical fish in Orlando, scooped the top amusement park prize.
Meanwhile Siam Park, an unlikely-sounding Thai-themed venue on the Spanish island of Tenerife, which features a colony of frisky sea lions, was named best water park.
The results of TripAdvisor's Traveler's Choice awards were based on data gathered from reviews over the past 12 months.
Orlando did well -- claiming five out of the world's top 10, including three hits for the Disney empire.
With its whimsical European fairy tale settings and thrilling rides, Germany's Europa Park came in second while Universal's Islands of Adventure, also in Orlando, placed third.
Disney and Orlando also proved a strong combination in the world of water parks with the Florida destination claiming two of the top 10 -- Disney's Blizzard Beach, at number three, and Typhoon Lagoon at four.
In Brazil, Beach Park in Aquiraz polled second in the water park category while Dubai fielded two of the top 10 -- Wild Wadi Water Park and Aquaventure.
World's top amusement parks
1. Discovery Cove, Orlando, Florida 2. Europa Park, Rust, Germany3. Universal's Islands of Adventure, Orlando, Florida4. Magic Kingdom, Orlando, Florida5. Disney's Hollywood Studios, Orlando, Florida6. Beto Carrero World, Penha, Brazil7. Disneyland Park, Anaheim, California 8. Universal Studios Singapore, Sentosa Island, Singapore9. PortAventura Park, Salou, Spain 10. Disney's Animal Kingdom, Orlando, Florida
World's top water parks
1. Siam Park, Adeje, Spain2. Beach Park, Aquiraz, Brazil3. Disney's Blizzard Beach Water Park, Orlando, Florida4. Disney's Typhoon Lagoon Water Park,Orlando, Florida5. Waterbom Bali, Kuta, Indonesia6. Wild Wadi Water Park, Dubai, United Arab Emirates7. Hot Park, Rio Quente, Brazil8. Aquaventure Waterpark, Dubai, United Arab Emirates9. Aquatica, Orlando, Florida10. Aquaventure Water Park at Atlantis, Paradise Island, Paradise Island, Bahamas
For the complete rankings, go to TripAdvisor.com.
What's your favorite water park and amusement park? Do you agree with these rankings? Let us know in the comments.
