A 22-year-old man appeared in court Thursday after he was charged with murder in the death of British soldier Lee Rigby in London last week.
Flanked by two police officers, Michael Adebowale spoke to confirm his name, his address and that he was aware of the charges against him.
Adebowale is also charged with unlawful possession of a firearm, a Dutch revolver, the Metropolitan Police said Wednesday.
His hands were cuffed in front of him and he wore a gray long-sleeved shirt and white trousers for the brief appearance at Westminster Magistrates' Court.
Addressing Adebowale, Chief Magistrate Howard Riddle said that he could sit rather than stand because he was injured.
Adebowale appeared to walk uncomfortably and his right hand was wrapped in what could have been a medical dressing.
He was discharged from a hospital Tuesday and has been held in custody since at a police station.
The magistrate referred Adebowale's case to a higher court -- the Old Bailey in London, also known as the Central Criminal Court -- where he will have a bail hearing June 3 and a further preliminary hearing June 28.
"There is sufficient evidence to prosecute Michael Adebowale and it is in the public interest to do so," said Sue Hemming, head of the Crown Prosecution Service's Special Crime and Counter-Terrorism Division.
A 28-year-old suspect remains under arrest at a London hospital. He has been identified by family, friends and acquaintances as Michael Adebolajo.
In all, 10 people have been arrested in connection with the killing. Two were released without charges, while six others have been freed on bail -- the most recent a 50-year-old man arrested Monday night on suspicion of conspiracy to murder.
The brutal killing of Rigby, who had served as an infantryman in Afghanistan and Cyprus, in the southeast London district of Woolwich shocked people across the United Kingdom. He was run over by a car and then stabbed in a daylight attack near the barracks where he was based.
A post mortem examination found that the soldier's cause of death was from "multiple incised wounds," police said Wednesday. An inquest into his death is due to open Friday.
Two men were shot and injured after armed police were called to the scene May 22.
Rigby was married and had a 2-year-old son. His wife, Rebecca Rigby, said last week that he had been planning to visit them so they could discuss their future.
Meanwhile, another woman who said she was Rigby's fiancée told Britain's Press Association that she's "extremely proud" of him and "devastated" by his death.
Aimee West's comments came in a statement to the news service issued through the Metropolitan Police. While police didn't relay that statement to CNN, they confirmed that they'd passed on West's remarks to the Press Association.
"I am moved by all the flowers and tributes, and that he has been remembered by the nation as the great man she was," West said.
