An Afghan soldier shot and killed a NATO soldier Monday in southern Afghanistan, high-ranking officials from the country's National Directorate for Security said.
NATO's International Security Assistance Force said an "individual wearing an Afghan National Army uniform turned his weapon against" an ISAF service member, "killing the service member." Afghan officials confirmed that the man who did the firing was an Afghan soldier.
In another incident, two ISAF service members died after an improvised explosive device attack in eastern Afghanistan, NATO said.
The nationalities of the service members were not immediately released.
Separately, Afghan and coalition forces repelled an attack on the provincial reconstruction team headquarters in the Herat district of Herat province on Monday, ISAF Joint Command said in a statement.
Insurgents trying to get inside the compound attacked the headquarters with a vehicle-borne IED and small-arms fire, but Afghan and coalition forces returned fire, killing several insurgents, it said.
Several ISAF service members were wounded.
The incidents took place a day after NATO apologized for an airstrike that killed nine civilians in southern Afghanistan.
Maj. Gen. John Toolan, head of the ISAF command in southwest Afghanistan, apologized "on behalf of the coalition" and its top leaders, including U.S. Army Gen. David Petraeus. He also pleaded with Afghans to work with coalition forces to bolster security.
Earlier, Afghan and NATO officials said the attack -- an airstrike Saturday in Helmand province --had killed a dozen children and two women. There was no immediate explanation for the disparity between these figure and the toll of nine civilians offered Sunday by Toolan, who also noted that a U.S. Marine was killed immediately before the strike.
Afghan President Hamid Karzai condemned the airstrike and said he was warning the U.S military and government "for the last time" on behalf of the Afghan people about civilian deaths. He called the operation a mistake.
Journalist Reshad Fazel contributed to this report.
