Whether it's dining, shopping, culture, nightlife or people, everybody has a favorite city. Some cities are great places to live and raise a family. Others provide the backdrop for that once-in-a-lifetime vacation.
The Cathedral Basilica of Saint Francis in Santa Fe, New Mexico.
I-Reporters have been telling us about their favorite American cities. Here are some of the highlights.
Jim Thompson sent the photo of the Cathedral Basilica of Saint Francis in Santa Fe, New Mexico, along with this important information: "Be sure to mention that St. Francis Cathedral has been renamed to St. Francis Basilica. ... The request was made by the Archdiocese of Santa Fe and was granted by the Vatican, so now St. Francis is the headquarters for the pope when he comes to Santa Fe."
Diana Peters moved to New Orleans in 2003, and has experienced the city before and after Hurricane Katrina. Her feelings about recovery are complicated. "But don't turn your back on New Orleans, because she survives in all of us, especially those of use who still see her beauty in what remains."
Josh Gorrell sent the photo of the "painted ladies" at Marina Del Rey in southern California. "My favorite part of living by the coast is the constantly fresh ocean breezes, the year-round sunshine and the wonderful seafood! Oh, and the surf!"
Raymond Lopera's favorite city in the Los Angeles area is Santa Monica. He lived there briefly when he moved from New York a few years ago and says he goes back every chance he gets. He says Santa Monica is very pedestrian friendly and he enjoys taking long walks, stopping along the way at places like Barnes & Noble or Starbucks.
Nikolai Ursin can't get enough of Minneapolis. "I'm 28 and able to live a fabulous life because the cost of living is so low, yet the wages are quite high. My friends in N.Y.C. are jealous. I travel a lot for work and there is nothing quite like landing in Minneapolis and knowing I'm home."
I-Reporter Chris Fuhriman is a captain in the Army and completing a master's degree in geography at the University of Hawaii. Fuhriman moved to Honolulu from Utah three years ago with his wife and two children. "His favorite thing about Honolulu? "The international flavor of the city, and the diversity. It's really a city for everyone."
Russell Clayton says there's "far too much to do" in Austin, Texas. Then he went on to list a wide variety of outdoor activities, including hiking, swimming, mountain biking, kayaking and canoeing. Clayton says the city's unofficial motto is "Keep Austin Weird." E-mail to a friend
