Police in London are lining up a huge police operation for the Notting Hill Carnival in the wake of the rioting and looting that hit the city earlier this month.
More than a million people are expected to head to west London over the course of the colorful two-day event, which features music, parades, dancing and stalls serving up Caribbean favorites like jerk chicken and rice and peas.
Some 5,500 officers will be on duty at the carnival on Sunday and 6,500 on Monday -- a public holiday in Britain -- with 4,000 additional officers deployed elsewhere across the city on top of usual police numbers, London's Metropolitan Police, or Met, said.
Commander Steve Rodhouse said creating a safe environment at the carnival is "a top priority" for the police force.
Speaking to the press earlier this week, he said police had intelligence to suggest that some gangs intended to cause trouble at the event.
"I want to say to those who want to come to corrupt this magnificent event: You are not welcome," he said. "Please do not come. The Met will do everything in its power to make it as hard as possible for you."
Officers will carry out checks for weapons as people enter the area, he said in a prepared statement.
Forty-three people have already been arrested as part of the Met's annual Operation Razorback, which aims to deter suspected troublemakers from committing crime at the carnival.
Organizers say the carnival will finish at 7 p.m. on Sunday and Monday -- an earlier time than usual -- in a bid to keep trouble from breaking out.
The event started four decades ago as a local festival set up by the West Indian community of the Notting Hill area. Now, it involves a huge costumed parade, live bands, more than 40 static music stations and hundreds of food stands.
There had been speculation the carnival, which its organizers say is Europe's biggest street festival, might be canceled after the disorder that hit the capital's streets three weeks ago.
Tens of millions of dollars of damage was caused to shops and business in the violent disorder, with the west London borough of Ealing, north London's Tottenham area and Croydon to the south of the city among the worst affected.
As of Thursday, there had been 2,006 arrests for a variety of offenses connected with the unrest, with 1,135 people charged so far, the Metropolitan Police said. Some 950 people have already appeared in court and 42 have been jailed.
Officers investigating the unrest have about 20,000 hours of security camera footage to watch and are working on more than 1,200 crime scenes, the police said.
