English Premier League side Arsenal have agreed a deal to sign Ivory Coast international striker Gervinho from French champions Lille for an undisclosed fee.
Speaking at a press conference in Malaysia, where Arsenal have started a pre- season tour of the Far East, manager Arsene Wenger confirmed a deal for the 24-year-old had been agreed.
A statement on the official Arsenal website also confirmed the transfer, saying: "Arsenal Football Club announces that Ivory Coast international forward Gervinho will shortly join the Gunners, subject to a regulatory process."
Gervinho scored 15 goals last season as Lille collected the French league and cup double, while he has scored six goals in 27 matches for his country.
Meanwhile, Wenger has also spoken about the futures of star midfielders Cesc Fabregas and Samir Nasri.
Arsenal captain Fabregas has been strongly linked with a return to Barcelona in the past couple of years, while French international Nasri has just one year left on his contract, attracting the interest of Premier League rivals Manchester City and Manchester United.
However, Wenger told reporters: "Yes I expect Cesc to stay -- as simple as that.
"I have never spoken about what has happened behind closed doors but Cesc loves the club.
"We know the Barcelona story goes on for years now and we have to close that. Now we focus on the new season, hopefully with Cesc Fabregas."
And speaking about compatriot Nasri, Wenger added: "I expect Nasri to stay as well. There is always speculation when a player has one year to go on his contract that he might leave, but Samir Nasri is very happy and committed to stay at the club.
"I hope he will sign a new contract but I am not the only one to decide that," continued Wenger.
Meanwhile, Wenger did confirm that goalkeeper Manuel Almunia and striker Nicklas Bendtner, who are both absent from the trip to the Far East, are likely to leave Arsenal in the coming weeks.
In other English transfer news, Stoke have completed the signing of injury-plagued former England central defender Jonathan Woodgate on a one-year contract.
The 31-year-old Woodgate, who has also played for Leeds, Newcastle and Real Madrid during his career, was released by Tottenham at the end of last season.
Elsewhere, Swiss international midfielder Gokhan Inler has completed his move from Udinese to Italian Serie A rivals Napoli.
The 27-year-old has agreed personal terms and joined the southern-based side for a fee in the region of $18 million.
