Serena Williams gave an awesome demonstration of power tennis to demolish Maria Sharapova 6-0 6-1 in the Olympic women's singles final at Wimbledon Saturday.
The 30-year-old American was backing up her Wimbledon triumph last month on the same grass courts and never allowed her Russian opponent the chance to settle.
Victory came after just 63 minutes and fittingly with yet another thunderous ace to complete a one-sided match.
Williams has joined Steffi Graf as the only players in tennis history to win all four grand slam titles and the Olympic singles title, the so-called Golden Slam.
Having won the Olympic doubles twice with sister Venus, she is also the first woman to achieve that triple feat.
Williams believes it ranks among her greatest achievements. "This one is so high up there, being Olympic gold champion, being Golden Slam champion singles and doubles, that's pretty awesome," she told gathered reporters.
Three aces in her opening service game set the course of the match and she immediately broke French Open champion Sharapova in the next game.
Almost total domination followed and it was not until the ninth game of the match that Sharapova got on the scoreboard.
She threatened on Williams' next service game, but the 14-time grand slam champion won it to lead 4-1 before breaking Sharapova yet again.
World number four Williams has beaten Sharapova, current world number one Victoria Azarenka and two other former world number ones in Caroline Wozniacki and Jelena Jankovic on her way to the title, dropping only 17 games in six matches.
After losing to Virginie Razzano in the first round of the French Open, doubters were writing off Williams, but she has responded in emphatic style with her fifth Wimbledon crown and now more Olympic glory.
Azarenka beat Maria Kirilenko of Russia 6-3 6-4 in the battle for bronze.
The American gold rush at SW19 continued Saturday as brothers Bob and Mike Bryan won their first Olympic title with a 6-4 7-6 victory over French second seeds Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Michael Llodra in the men's doubles final.
The Bryan brothers had taken the bronze medal in the men's doubles in Beijing four years ago, but made no mistake this time.
