Lindsay Lohan's had enough of people's false accusations while she's trying to get her career back on track after five years of legal troubles, her publicist said Tuesday.
"We've reached a point where it's just not going to be tolerated anymore," Steve Honig said. "People need to understand that there are consequences."
Lohan and her lawyer, Shawn Holley, will visit the Los Angeles County sheriff's West Hollywood substation Tuesday to request an investigation of Marisa Sullivan Dugas, the woman who accused Lohan of battery.
"There have been a few incidents like this within the last few months, and we've reached a point where it's just not going to be tolerated anymore," Honig said. "People need to understand that there are consequences. You can't just make accusations, file false police reports, and expect you'll walk away from it and nothing's going to happen to you. This woman's going to learn a very tough lesson in these next few weeks."
Dugas said Lohan shoved her at the Standard Hotel's club Thursday night, but she did not file a criminal report with the sheriff until Saturday.
"It's egregious," Honig said. "Lindsay wasn't even there. This is not something that's exaggerated. It's something that was completely fabricated."
Lohan was at home watching television at the time of the alleged nightclub scuffle, Honig said.
"If I was this young girl, I would be busy at work on some sort of an apology right now, and hoping that it was received," Honig said.
Dugas, in a phone call with CNN on Tuesday, declined to talk about the case, although she said she was dying to tell her story.
Honig accused Dugas of shopping her story around to media outlets before filing an official report.
"This is just another very unfortunate incident of someone trying to take advantage of Lindsay to get their 15 minutes of fame, and get some money out of it as well," he said.
Dugas, who describes herself as "a nice person," denies wanting money for interviews, although she said she's been offered "a lot."
Sheriff's Sgt. Chris Bowman said Monday that a detective has the battery report and would check the story's validity. "It's just an allegation," Bowman said.
The allegation comes less than two weeks after Lohan's supervised probation came to an end. She's no longer under the threat that any criminal complaint could become a probation violation leading to jail time.
But bad news coverage could reinforce concerns that film and TV producers have about hiring Lohan for projects at a time that she's trying to prove she's dependable and ready to stay out of trouble.
Lohan is preparing to portray Elizabeth Taylor in a Lifetime movie, which starts filming next month. She also has a role in an upcoming episode of the hit Fox TV show "Glee."
A judge warned her last month that avoiding future trouble could be a challenge.
"I know it's hard when people are following you all over the place, but that's the life you chose," Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Stephanie Sautner told Lohan, advising her to "live your life in a more mature way, stop the nightclubbing and focus on your work."
Her recent hosting job on NBC's "Saturday Night Live" earned high ratings, and her photo spread in Playboy's January issue set sales records for the magazine.
CNN's Jane Caffrey and Douglas Hyde contributed to this report.
