The New York Giants' unlikely win over the New England Patriots is already being called one of the biggest shockers in Super Bowl history, and the amazing catch David Tyree made to set up the game-winning touchdown won't be forgotten anytime soon.
Pint-sized Giants fans, Luka and Kristian Radovich, celebrate after Plaxico Burress' game-winning catch.
CNN.com reader Michael Heitman, of Baxter, Tennessee, will remember Super Bowl XLII for more than the 17-14 score.
"Our 13-month-old daughter took her first steps during the second half. Apparently, so did the Giants offense. Congrats to the Giants from a Cowboys fan," he said.
David Marks, of Duquesne, Pennsylvania, said it was "one of the best football games I'd ever seen," but said watching the game with his family had some drawbacks.
"I was not able to enjoy the commercials as much because my mom wouldn't stop yakking away," he said. "She's 80 years old and I didn't want to say anything at first -- you don't know how much longer you have your mom at that age. But finally after a quarter and a half, I had to ask her to pipe down."  Watch some of the pre-game festivities »
Dan Nash, of Santa Monica, California, didn't have that problem.
"It would be nice to see the GAME a little more," he said adding that "every 10 seconds (or less), we're watching ads! Kickoff ... three ads. Punt ... three ads. Flag on the play ... two ads."
Here is a sampling of our readers' reaction to the game:
Russell Giuliano of Middletown, New Jersey I have seen every Super Bowl, and this was the best ever, even better than No. 3 with Namath.
Dave Viscusi of Schenectady, New York That was one of the best Super Bowls/Super Bowl parties I have ever been to. We made 4 different kinds of pizza (BBQ chicken, cheese, sausage and peppers), boneless buffalo wings, BBQ ribs, chips of all kinds, apple martinis, some beer and topped off the Giants victory with some CHAMPAGNE! GO G-Men ... Eli deserves every ounce of credit he gets for this Super Bowl ... Way to throw it right in the arrogant Patriots' face!
Ricardo Gomez of Buenos Aires, Argentina I'm a big Pats fan, and I was sad to see that last play when Manning escapes the Pats' defense and throw that pass, the one that put the GIANTS OFFENSE so close to the touchdown. Anyway, I think Pats are still the best team in the league, and I was there that snowy night when Brady got us to the Super Bowl at the last second with (Adam Vinatieri kicking) that amazing field goal! So GO PATS! GO!!!
Irving Horowitz of Princeton, New Jersey There are three sport moments in my life that I will take to my grave with a broad grin and deep pleasure: The first was the Bobby Thompson home run for the New York (Baseball) Giants in 1951 to defeat the Dodgers; a varsity game while I was at Hobart & William Smith when, as a member of the faculty and staff, we defeated a first-class varsity team in 1962 and I made the winning basket with 28 seconds on the clock (I have the press clippings to prove this); and the biggest thrill of them all: Watching the New York (Football) Giants win Super Bowl XLII against the New England Patriots.
When Bob Tisch spoke of "this win is for all Giant fans who, for the past 30 years, supported the team at Giants Stadium, and before that at the Yankee Stadium, and for those who still remember being part of the Giants at the Polo Grounds," I felt that he spoke directly to me.
After all, I am actually about a year or two older than the franchise ... Wow! 2008 is already a good year -- a good omen for America.
Monique Mondesire of Bronx, New York I'm a 26-year-old female who really doesn't put much thought into sports, but that was the best Super Bowl game I have ever seen in my life. I had faith that it would happen, but the way it happened was priceless. I'm very proud to be a New Yorker and a new Giants fan. To all the New Yorkers that lost their bets yesterday, in the words of Don Corleone, "Never go against the family."
Lisa Ciacci of Brooklyn, New York As a die-hard Cowboys fan, I may have been the most unlikely N.Y. Giants fan last night. I could not be happier for this team. They played their hearts out in quite possibly the best game I have ever watched. Eli Manning came of age before our very eyes and proves once again that he is truly a class act. I hope this loss haunts the Patriots forever. They weren't good enough to beat the Giants last night nor will they ever be. This city will surely explode at tomorrow's parade -- it's good to be in New York! GO GIANTS! E-mail to a friend
