(CNN)   -- Chelsea extended their lead in the English title race with a 2-0 win over London neighbors Arsenal at Stamford Bridge on Sunday while the misery continues for 18-time champions Liverpool.
Goals in either half from Didier Drogba and Alex leave Chelsea four points clear of big-spending Manchester City.
They beat Newcastle 2-1 in an earlier kickoff while Liverpool went down 2-1 at home to newly-promoted minnows Blackpool .
Charlie Adam's penalty and a fine goal from Luke Varney put Ian Holloway's men two up by halftime.
Sotirios Kyrgiakos pulled a goal back in the second half but Roy Hodgson's strugglers could not force an equalizer and they stay in the bottom three.
The match was preceded by a protest against the team's American owners George Gillett and Tom Hicks and by the finish the fans were even more disillusioned.
To add to their misery, star striker Fernando Torres limped off after just 10 minutes with a groin injury and it was the signal for Blackpool to claim three points with an attacking approach which stunned the hosts.
Varney was clumsily upended by England international Glen Johnson to concede a penalty and Adam easily beat Pepe Reina from the spot.
And as half-time approached, Varney finished off a superb move to beat Reina.
Kyrgiakos scored with a strong header from a Steven Gerrard free kick to give Liverpool hope and Joe Cole came close to an equalizer, but the final whistle was greeted by jeers for Hodgson and his team.
"Their great result is our nightmare result," he acknowledged.
"It is a very bad day and there is nothing I can say.
"At the moment things look bleak and really bad and it is difficult for me to put a bright face upon it," he told gathered reporters.
Later, Chelsea maintained their recent dominance of Arsenal with a vital victory, Drogba putting them ahead just before the break after the the visitors had the better of the early play.
He backheeled Ashley Cole's low cross into the net for his 13th goal against Arsene Wenger's side in 11 starts.
Defender Alex sealed the three points with a powerful 25 meter free-kick in the 85th minute to hand the Gunners their second straight league defeat.
They are tied on points with north London rivals Tottenham in fourth and fifth positions, seven points behind Chelsea with seven games played.
Manchester City are up to second after their victory over a spirited Newcastle.
They took the lead through a Carlos Tevez penalty after Mike Williamson pulled down the Argentina international.
Newcastle lost Hatem Ben Arfa to a suspected broken leg after a Nigel de Jong challenge, but drew level through a sharp shot from Jonas Gutierrez.
Substitute Adam Johnson scored the winner for City in the second half with an equally fine strike.
Manchester United are in third place in the early standings, five points behind Chelsea, after their 0-0 draw at Sunderland on Saturday.
In other news on Sunday, former England manager Sven-Goran Eriksson was confirmed as new manager of struggling second-flight side Leicester City.
The Swede has signed a two-year deal at the Walkers Stadium.
