(CNN)  -- Authorities are asking for the public's help in finding an eighth suspect accused of being a member of a North Carolina group that allegedly plotted "violent jihad" overseas.
Authorities are searching for North Carolina resident Jude Kenan Mohammed.
"The Raleigh Joint Terrorism Task Force is seeking any information the public may have regarding the whereabouts of Jude Kenan Mohammad," the FBI said in a statement.
Federal authorities had said earlier that they believed Mohammad, 20, was in Pakistan.
Seven other suspects are in custody. All eight are accused of plotting "violent jihad" overseas, according to the indictment, and are charged with conspiracy to provide material support to terrorists and conspiracy to murder, kidnap, maim and injure people.
The indictment identifies Mohammad as a U.S. citizen and a North Carolina resident. It says he traveled to Pakistan in October 2008 to "engage in violent jihad." No further details are offered.
A federal judge denied bail last week for six of the men, but expressed skepticism about the charges against them.
Magistrate Judge William Webb said the defendants had made a number of statements espousing holy war, and said the statements could be interpreted in isolation as braggadocio.
But because some group members had amassed a large arsenal and ammunition and had engaged in firearms training, Webb found there was reason to believe that they harbored criminal intent and presented a flight risk or a possible danger to the community.
Bail was denied for the seventh man, Anes Subasic, on Monday, CNN affiliate WTVD reported.
Five surreptitiously recorded audiotapes were played in a court hearing last week, along with a cell phone video showing someone firing an AK-47.
On a tape made in May 2009, one of the suspects, Daniel Patrick Boyd, talks about getting the money needed to wage jihad and hitting Wells Fargo trucks and banks. He makes reference to how he had robbed a bank in Pakistan.
Boyd's sons, Dylan Boyd, 22, also known as "Mohammed," and Zakariya Boyd, 20, also are among the eight charged.
Federal agents discovered in the Boyd house, among other items: several weapons, thousands of rounds of ammunition, $13,000 cash, gas masks, and a document described as a fatwa (Muslim religious edict) of jihad (holy war), the FBI said.
They also found a trench under the deck of the house, which a witness told the FBI was a bunker to store and conceal weapons, and a plywood plank placed in a tree so that someone sitting there could see anyone approaching the house, FBI special agent Michael Sutton said.
Sabrina Boyd -- the wife of Daniel Patrick Boyd and the mother of the two younger Boyds -- has said the allegations against her family are false.
