While New York police sort out the brawl that left Chris Brown with a nasty cut on his chin early Thursday, the media is left with conflicting details that are mostly be attributed to unnamed sources.
It was a "brutal attack" that injured Brown, his model girlfriend Karrueche Tran and his bodyguard, Brown rep Jeff Raymond said. "Chris and his party are cooperating with New York authorities who are pursuing this incident further."
Brown and others in his group have been interviewed by New York police, Brown's spokesman said. A New York Police spokesman confirmed the department was investigating the incident.
Brown was partying with friends in the VIP section of the South Village club W.i.P., while the rapper Drake and his friends were nearby, according to statements reps for both artists.
Some online reports said the incident began when Drake and Brown argued over Brown's ex-girlfriend Rihanna, whom Brown was convicted of assaulting three years ago.
But the confrontation was not about Rihanna, a source close to Brown told CNN. The same source would not confirm if Drake, who has dated Rihanna, was involved.
While Drake's rep confirmed the rapper was there, he said "Drake did not participate in any wrongdoing of any kind last night at W.i.P."
"He was on his way out of the club when the altercation began," Drake's rep told CNN. "He did not engage in any activity which resulted in injury to person or damage to property."
The source close to Brown described Brown and his party as victims who were enjoying themselves until they were confronted by "the other party."
They wanted no part of the confrontation and were trying to leave when they were brutally attacked, the source said.
Brown's spokesman disputed one online report that someone in Brown's group escalated the confrontation by taunting Drake. "No one in Chris' camp was inciting the other party," he said.
Brown posted a photo of his injury -- which appeared to be a half-inch gash on the left corner of his chin -- on his Instagram account.
Rihanna on Chris Brown: I'm going to do what I want
Meek Mill, another rapper named in the online reports, also distanced himself from the brawl. While Mill's rep declined comment to CNN, the artist tweeted "It wasn't me."
Brown, in a tweet of his own Thursday afternoon, appeared to support Meek Mill's claim.
"Me and @MeekMill ain't on that bulls**t. Real respect Real...."
Brown is on probation for another two years, until 2014, the result of his guilty plea to assaulting Rihanna on the eve of the 2009 Grammy Awards.
Mark Geragos, the same lawyer who defended Brown in that case, is in New York representing Brown in this incident, the spokesman said.
"Chris is only being viewed as a victim, based on injuries sustained to him, his girlfriend, his friends and his security," the spokesman said. "He is not being viewed as a witness, and certainly not as a suspect."
Previously on CNN: Stars react to Chris Brown, Rihanna
CNN's Denise Quan and Carolyn Sung contributed to this report.
