Bayern Munich celebrated the Bundesliga's 50th birthday by setting a new club record in Saturday's Bavarian derby against Nuremberg.
The European and German league champions triumphed 2-0 at home for a new milestone of 28 top-flight matches without defeat, giving new coach Pep Guardiola a perfect start of three wins from three.
The win left Bayern in third place on goal difference behind Bayer Leverkusen and table-topping Borussia Dortmund.
Having hit the post early on through Daniel Ginczek, Nuremberg had seemed set for a third successive draw after frustrating the home team in front of a 71,000 sellout crowd, as Raphael Schafer saved David Alaba's first-half penalty and denied several other Bayern efforts.
However, France midfielder Franck Ribery broke the deadlock with a header in the 69th minute after a teasing cross by captain Philipp Lahm to ensure that Bayern scored for a 40th successive match.
Arjen Robben, who had been fouled for the penalty, wrapped up the points nine minutes later as he finished a trademark run into the box with a low shot into the corner of the net.
Xherdan Shaqiri also hit the Nuremberg woodwork, having come on to replace Ribery.
"It's an important victory," said Guardiola, whose team next travels to Freiburg on Tuesday and then goes to Prague for Friday's European Super Cup match against English side Chelsea -- a rematch of the 2012 Champions League final.
"I'm satisfied, especially with the second half and our control of the game. Just like in Frankfurt, we hardly let them hit us on the break, which is something I've talked about a lot with the team.
"Especially when Franck and Arjen have the ball, we can attack at pace. Nuremberg were unbelievably well organized. It's always difficult against this type of team."
The match marked the debut of Bayern's new signing Mario Gotze, who played 68 minutes before being substituted in favor of Toni Kroos. Thomas Muller came on six minutes earlier, replacing Thiago Alcantara -- another newcomer, who made his first start.
"We ran out of gas in the course of the second half," said Nuremberg coach Michael Wiesinger, a Champions League winner with Bayern in 2001.
"I was impressed with the way Bayern never became impatient. They imposed their game on us and deserved the win."
Leverkusen claimed second place after beating Borussia Monchengladbach 4-2 at home, with Germany winger Sidney Sam netting twice.
Mainz made it four clubs on nine points with a 2-0 win at home to Wolfsburg, whose new signing Luis Gustavo was sent off in the 64th minute for a second booking. It was the Brazilian's second game since leaving Bayern.
Schalke's poor start continued with a 2-1 defeat at Hannover, leaving coach Jens Keller under pressure ahead of next week's Champions League qualifier against PAOK Salonika. The Royal Blues have just one point from three games.
Hoffenheim drew 3-3 with Freiburg, while Hertha Berlin beat Hamburg 1-0 in Saturday's late match.
On Friday, last season's runners-up Dortmund won 1-0 at Werder Bremen thanks to a second-half goal from Poland striker Robert Lewandowski.
That match took place 49 years and 364 days after the two clubs met in the opening round of the newly-formed Bundesliga competition in 1963.
In France, Marseille notched a third successive win to move two points clear at the top of the table.
Striker Andre-Pierre Gignac netted a late winner at Valenciennes, while Lyon stayed third after losing 1-0 at home to Reims.
Second-placed Monaco drew 0-0 at home to Toulouse on Friday, while defending champions Paris Saint-Germain will seek a first win this season at Nantes on Sunday, following two draws.
