Chris Christie and Hillary Clinton are neck-and-neck in the New Jersey governor's home state, according to a poll released Tuesday about the hypothetical presidential match-up.
Fairleigh Dickinson University's Public Mind Poll found that Clinton garnered 45% of the New Jersey electorate while Christie won 42%. Clinton's slight lead is within the poll's 3.7% margin of error, making the contest a statistical tie.
A tie, however, is down from where Clinton was just last month.
A Quinnipiac University Poll found in August that Clinton would beat Christie in New Jersey 50% to 42%.
This was the first time that Fairleigh Dickinson asked questions about Clinton vs. Christie in the Garden State.
When Christie won re-election in 2013, he was heralded as the Republicans' hope for winning the White House in 2016 because of his crossover appeal with Democratic and independent voters. While the governor has been hampered by the George Washington Bridge scandal -- and seen his polling numbers with Democrats fall -- Fairleigh Dickinson's polling director sees promise in these numbers for Christie.
"These numbers continue to provide a testament to his crossover appeal, even in light of the ongoing investigations that have dogged him for going on a year," said Krista Jenkins. "Numbers like these can help him build support as he crisscrosses the country as head of the Republican Governors Association and enters the world stage."
Correct the Record, an outside research and communications groups helping Clinton, said the fact that Clinton is tied with Christie in his home state bodes well for Democrats in 2016.
"If Christie is the nominee, the Republicans will have to spend money to win their nominee's home state," said Burns Strider, senior adviser to the group. "Folks, Christie should be able to win his home state, and he can't guarantee it by any means."
Both Clinton and Christie are seen as top-level contenders for their respective party's presidential nomination in 2016. Clinton has admitted to thinking about running and recently said she will make her decision near the start of 2015. Christie has traveled the country as head of the Republican Governor's Association and recently said that he would decide on a run late in 2014 or early in 2015.
