Jackie Chan is giving fans in China a new way to get personal with the Hong Kong-born kung fu superstar.
A theme park dedicated to the 59-year-old is under development in Beijing, reports state media.
Dubbed the Jackie Chan World Park, it will contain five major themed areas and various cultural exhibition centers filled with items Chan collected over the years, including four antique Chinese wooden buildings.
Entrance to the park will be free but visitors will have to buy tickets to enter some of the attractions.
No opening date has been given.
Chan, who is referred to as "Cheng Long" in China, confirmed the launch of the park on his official Weibo account last week.
According to the People's Daily, Jackie Chan World Park will be built in the Beijing suburb of Yizhuang. Once popular with Chinese royalty for hunting, it's now home to Beijing's Economic and Technical Development Area.
More: Jackie Chan's US$30 million private jet at Singapore Airshow 2012
Shanghai is also due for some Chan exposure.
The Jackie Chan Museum -- construction began in 2008 -- is due to open this year, though a precise date hasn't been set.
The museum is set in a renovated factory in the Changfeng Ecological Business District (CEBD) in Shanghai's Putuo district, beside Suzhou Creek.
Chan says that while the Shanghai museum will be used for displaying thousands of movie memorabilia he collected over the years, the Beijing theme park will be used to exhibit his personal collections.
"I wanted to buy everything when I was young, but now I want to donate whatever I have," he posted on Weibo. "One person's happiness can't compare to the joy of all, only culture lasts forever."
Chan, who began acting in Hong Kong in 1962 at the age of five, crossed the Pacific to become a household name in the West in the 1990s thanks to comedic martial arts performances in Hollywood films like "Rush Hour" and "Shanghai Noon."
Though he's said in recent interviews he's going to lay off the stunts that made him famous, Chan continues to act, direct and produce films.
More: World's first Jackie Chan Museum to open in Shanghai
