Two New York residents have been arrested on charges of conspiring to send aid to terrorist groups in Afghanistan, New York City officials said Thursday.
Humayoun Ghoulan Nabi, 27, and Ismail Alsarabbi, 32, are charged with conspiring to solicit aid in support of terrorist organizations -- including the Taliban and al Qaeda -- fighting American troops in Afghanistan.
Nabi, a Pakistani national, and Alsarabbi, a naturalized U.S. citizen from Kuwait, allegedly planned to supply warm winter clothing and electronics to militants in the region to ensure their attacks can continue during harsh Afghan winters, according to the Queens County District Attorney's office.
Queens District Attorney Richard. A. Brown said winter jackets and electronics were "as serious as supplying the enemy with bullets and bombs."
"These defendants, as a result, were not merely conspiring to supply clothing items to people in Afghanistan, they were conspiring to make the enemy more effective in engaging and killing American soldiers," said Brown, in a press release.
According to the complaint, Nabi admitted to engaging in a plan to provide outerwear and jackets to fighters in Afghanistan because he hates the United States, Jewish people and U.S. soldiers.
"The arrests of these two New York City residents, Nabi and Alsarabbi, demonstrate the spectrum of terrorism threats that the New York City Police Department must continue to guard against," said New York Police Department Commissioner Raymond Kelly in a statement.
The investigation began in April 2011 when a confidential informant approached an NYPD detective and told him about Nabi's plans, the complaint says.
The informant said Nabi compared his efforts to those of Osama Bin Laden and stated that the governments in Muslim countries cannot be trusted to stand up for pious Muslims, according to the complaint. Nabi told the informant he wanted to take a stand.
According to the complaint, Alsarabbi and Nabi took money given by the NYPD to the informant and sent it to Lahore, Pakistan. From recorded conversation it was determined the money was sent to Nabi's father for "merchandise to Afghanistan," the complaint states.
Both men were arraigned on Tuesday in Queens Criminal Court and held on $500,000 bond. The next hearing date is set for October 25, the district attorney's office said.
Nabi and Alsarabbi are charged with soliciting or providing support for an act of terrorism and conspiracy. If convicted on all counts, they face up to seven years behind bars.
CNN was unable to reach Nabi's and Alsarabbi's attorneys on Thursday.
