Some 20,000 text messages, 25 photographs including nudes, and alleged secret meetings have prompted prosecutors to rescind a plea offer and request that bond be revoked for Florida teen Kaitlyn Hunt, charged with felonies in a sexual relationship with a 14-year-old girl, according to court papers.
Hunt, who turned 19 last Wednesday, was charged with two felony counts of lewd and lascivious battery after the parents of a then-14-old schoolmate went to authorities in Indian River County saying Hunt had a sexual relationship with their daughter.
After the case gained nationwide publicity, Hunt was offered a plea deal in which she would not face jail time, nor would she have to wear an ankle bracelet or have to register as a sex offender.
But Florida Assistant State Attorney Christopher Taylor told CNN Monday that since learning about Hunt's alleged contact with the victim in this case, the state has taken the deal off the table.
Texts, photos and meetings would violate a no-contact court order issued in February as a condition of Hunt's being out of jail while awaiting trial.
Prosecutors now say in court papers that also in February, Hunt gave the girl an iPod. The device was used to receive and send about 20,000 text messages between the two, according to the court papers.
Hunt also is accused of sending photographs and videos to the girl, with the court papers saying "These photographs are explicit and depict the defendant nude ..."
Prosecutors included examples of texts they say Hunt sent to the girl, including: "(N)o matter what if they find out we talked I'm going to jail until trial starts."
The texts are proof that Hunt was "consciously and intentionally violating the court's order," prosecutors said in the papers.
Prosecutors also say that the younger girl told a detective that Hunt would drive her to "a remote location where they would have intimate physical contact." The court papers claim that the most recent meeting took place two weeks ago.
The Hunt family refused to comment and their attorney has not responded to CNN's request for an interview.
The case gained national attention when Hunt's family went public on Facebook after she was charged, detailing their daughter's case and essentially accusing the victim's family of going after their daughter because she is gay.
The victim's family said that isn't true and that they were only trying to protect their teenage daughter.
A judge will decide Tuesday whether Hunt's bond should be revoked and if that happens, she could be jailed.
