Chopping breadcrumbs by flashlight. Cooking turkeys on the grill. Watching Netflix on phones.
Many New Englanders were without power -- but this was nothing new for the state.
Tens of thousands spent Thanksgiving just as others did in New England when it was first observed in the 17th century: without electricity.
In New Hampshire, more than 133,000 customers were still without power overnight into Friday.
"They're saying it will be a multiday event," said Fallon Reed, the assistant operations chief for the New Hampshire Division of Homeland Security & Emergency Management.
In Maine, there were as many as 110,000 customers without electricity on Thanksgiving morning, but milder Turkey Day temperatures allowed for workers to cut that number down by more than two thirds by night's end: Central Maine Power Co. reported that less than 32,000 customers had no power, while Emera, the state's second-largest utility company, reported that less than 1,000 customers without electricity after a Wednesday nor'easter dumped more than a foot of snow across a dozen Maine cities, WMTW reported.
"Heavy, wet snow brought down power lines and tree limbs interrupting service to thousands of people throughout Maine," Emera posted on its website. "Crews will remain in the field through the overnight hours and into Friday until all customers are fully restored."
Despite the setback, the heartiest of New Englanders wouldn't let the lack of electricity prevent them from enjoying the heartiest of meals. Lots of Mainers took to Twitter either to poke fun at or moan about the weather. Most showed remarkable resilience and seemed reluctant to let the weather ruin their turkey day.
"Power is out at parents house in Maine, so my mom is chopping breadcrumbs with a flashlight," Brooklyn copy editor Kelly Gordon tweeted. She later told CNN that the meal turned out perfectly. "My mom would never let no lights (or) no heat keep her from Thanksgiving prep work," she said.
CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin and Teri Genova contributed to this report.
