Paul Scholes capped his return to Premier League action with a goal as Manchester United beat struggling Bolton Wanderers 3-0 at Old Trafford on Saturday.
The former England international, who has come out of retirement to ease Alex Ferguson's injury-hit squad, scored in first half injury time.
Scholes in shock return
Further goals came in the second half courtesy of Danny Welbeck in the 74th minute then Michael Carrick seven minutes from time.
The win moves United level on points with league leaders Manchester City who can restore their three-point lead if they beat Wigan on Monday night.
Bolton are now 19th with 16 points.
Tottenham Hotspur missed the chance to join United and City as joint leaders after being held to a 1-1 draw with Wolves at White Hart Lane.
Steven Fletcher put the visitors ahead after 22 minutes prodding home after Brad Friedel parried a header from Roger Johnson.
Luka Modric leveled things up six minutes after the break but despite concerted pressure Spurs couldn't find a winner.
The draw leaves them in third place with 46 points. Wolves are still hovering above the relegation zone in 16th place with 18 points.
Frank Lampard's first half goal was enough to see Chelsea defeat Sunderland at Stamford Bridge. The win keeps them in fourth place, four points above London rivals Arsenal who travel to Swansea City on Sunday.
Liverpool's seventh home draw of the league season saw them lose further ground on the top four. A 0-0 draw against Stoke City sees them stay in sixth place with 35 points, while Stoke remain in eighth with 30 points.
Blackburn Rovers lifted themselves off the bottom of the table with a 3-1 win over Fulham at Ewood Park despite having star striker Yakabu sent off in the first half for high challenge on Danny Murphy.
Morten Gamst Pedersen put the home side ahead on the stroke of halftime with David Dunn doubling the lead immediately after the break.
Damien Duff pulled one back for Fulham but Argentine midfielder Mauro Formica (who replaced Dunn in the 69th minute) wrapped up the three points 11 minutes from time to lift Blackburn to 17th in the table with 17 points. Fulham are 14th with 23 points.
The mid-table tussle between Aston Villa and Everton ended in a 1-1 draw. Darren Bent opened the scoring at Villa Park before substitute Victor Anichebe equalized for the visitors in the 69th minute.
The Toffees remain a point ahead of 12th-placed Villa on 25 points and two places above in 10th.
Norwich City picked up three points on their visit to the Hawthorns as they beat West Bromwich Albion 2-1.
Andrew Surman gave the Canaries the lead shortly before halftime, with Irish striker Shane Long equalizing from the penalty spot in the 68th minute.
But a late header from Steve Morison ensured Norwich climb to ninth in the table while West Brom remain in 15th.
Newcastle United host Queen's Park Rangers on Sunday.
The West London club who recently appointed Mark Hughes as successor to previous boss Neil Warnock have agreed a fee with Chelsea for the signing of the Brazilian defender Alex according to reports in the British media on Saturday.
