England will make their defense of the World Twenty20 title without gifted batsman Kevin Pietersen, who was omitted from their 15-man squad Tuesday.
Pietersen was man of the tournament in their triumph in the Caribbean two years ago, but is at odds with teammates and the England management for "provocative" texts sent to opposition South African players.
The 32-year-old was left out of the third Test against South Africa at Lord's, which ended in a 51-run defeat, despite scoring a superb century in the previous match of the series.
He has apologized for the text messages, which allegedly criticized England captain Andrew Strauss, but it has not been enough to earn him a recall to the England fold.
"Kevin Pietersen's future involvement is still being determined and he was therefore not considered for selection in either squad," national selector Geoff Miller told the official England and Wales Cricket Board website.
South African born Pietersen averages nearly 50 runs per innings in Test cricket and is renowned for his ability to score quickly in one day internationals and the Twenty20 format.
But earlier this year he made a shock announcement to retire from one-day internationals and Twenty20 matches for England.
After his superb 149 in the second Test against South Africa, Pietersen cast further doubt on his future by saying "obstacles" must be overcome for him to continue playing.
He was believed to be referring to a fake Twitter account which portrayed him in unflattering terms and was being followed by several of his teammates.
But Pietersen was soon using YouTube to announce that he was available again for England in all forms of cricket.
It was not enough to earn him selection for the final Test where England lost their No.1 status and his exile has now continued.
Pietersen's close friend, the Australian cricket legend Shane Warne, said Tuesday that it was a "tragedy" that he would not be playing for England.
"There's a bit too much ego at the ECB (England and Wales Cricket Board), there's no give or take or compromise," Warne told a press conference in Sydney.
"If he doesn't sign his England contract, if he doesn't play for England again, I just think that's a tragedy."
But Warne added: "Kevin Pietersen has to put his hand up and say 'I've conducted myself in a pretty ordinary fashion, too'."
England's squad contained few surprises, with eight survivors of the squad which won the trophy two years ago.
Jonathan Bairstow, who scored 95 and 54 in stepping in for Pietersen at Lord's, is included.
"We are very much looking forward to beginning the defence of our World T20 title next month," said Miller.
