Tiger Woods and General Motors have announced that they will conclude their nine-year endorsement deal at the end of December.
World number one Woods is happy to have more 'personal time' with wife Elin expecting their second child.
The parties agreed to a "mutual and amicable separation" that included a desire for more personal time for 14-time major winner Woods whose wife Elin is expecting their second child.
And GM say the company is searching for "budget efficiencies" during a difficult economy.
World No. 1 Woods has endorsed GM products around the world for the past nine years and has been heavily associated with the Buick brand in the U.S., Canada and China markets.
The endorsement deal, believed to be worth at least $7 million a year, was to end in 2009. Woods' agent at IMG, Mark Steinberg, said the decision to end the relationship one year early was "absolutely mutual."
"It was a combination of things," Steinberg said. "Tiger was looking to gain some more time, and certainly it was an opportunity for GM to reduce its spending with everything going on."
GM's vice president for North American sales, Mark LaNeve, says the separation is the result of discussions earlier in the year and is not related to the company's campaign for $25 billion in loans from the federal government.
In a Web site statement, Woods commented, "I am very proud of the long standing partnership I've had with GM and have enjoyed being a part of the company's dramatic product evolution.
"We've had a lot of fun together and I participated in some unique and rewarding activities. We've enjoyed a tremendous partnership over the years and we will maintain strong ties with the many people at GM we call friends."
Woods has yet to decide when he will be fit to return to the circuit following knee surgery after winning the U.S. Open in June at Torrey Pines.
There has been speculation it could be early February for the defense of his Buick Invitational title on a course -- Torrey Pines -- where he has won five straight events
"That's the most frustrating thing for me, because I don't know," Woods said recently. "I like having things planned out. I like understanding what I need to shoot for, but I don't know.
"And the surgeons don't know, either, because they've never dealt with an injury like this for a person who plays golf at an elite level."
