Victoria Pendleton rounded off another night of triumph for hosts Great Britain in the Olympic Velodrome with a storming ride to take gold in the women's keirin Friday.
Pendleton suffered bitter disappointment on the first night of finals when she and partner Jess Varnish were disqualified in the women's team sprint for a technical infringement, but made amends with the second gold of her Games career.
The 31-year-old Pendleton powered to the front with over a lap to go and held off a determined challenge from China's Guo Shuang to claim an emotional victory.
"My legs were still good from last night. I really wanted to show what I've got. It turned out okay, I guess," she said.
Lee Wai-Sze of Hong Kong took a surprise bronze with Pendleton's arch-rival Anna Meares of Australia out of the medals.
Pendleton will get one more chance for golden glory when she defends her women's sprint title.
She followed Britain's men's team pursuit squad on to the track after the quartet of Geraint Thomas, Ed Clancy, Steven Burke and Peter Kennaugh had broken their own world record to take gold by beating arch-rivals Australia in the final.
Tour de France winner and Olympic time trial champion Bradley Wiggins was in the 6,000 capacity crowd to watch his GB compatriots defend their Beijing crown.
Wiggins had been part of that team, which also set a world record, and the 2012 version did not disappoint either.
Clancy and Thomas were picking up their second successive golds in the event as they crossed the line in a time of three minutes 51.659 seconds.
Australia were just under three seconds adrift with New Zealand winning the bronze medal after beating Russia in their run off.
There was promise of more gold for the rampant home team in the women's team pursuit where the trio of Laura Trott, Joanna Rowsell and Dani King broke their own world record in qualifying.
Their time of three minutes 15.669 seconds, edged their own mark for the 3,000m event set at the world championships earlier this year.
It is the seventh world record to be set in the velodrome and the fifth for the hosts, who won the men's team sprint on the first night.
