The U.S. reinforced its close ties with Jordan this week by increasing aid to the Kingdom by 48 percent.
MME spoke with Dr. Bassem I. Awadallah, Chief of the Royal Hashemite Court, about Jordan's relationship with the U.S.
Washington says the increase in aid to $663 million this year shows "the bipartisan support in America for the difficult choices Jordan has made in its homegrown reform efforts."
Jordan has been a close political ally of the U.S. for decades. The strength of their relationship was recognised in 2000 when Jordan became the first Arab country to sign a free trade deal with the U.S.
When Jordan's King Abdullah bin al-Hussein II came to power in 1999, he put economic reform at the top of his agenda.
Since then, the Kingdom has moved to liberalize trade, eliminate fuel subsidies, crack down on corruption and reform the tax system.
Dr. Bassem I. Awadallah is a former economic advisor to the Prime Minister of Jordan. He's now Chief of the Royal Hashemite Court, and Vice Chairman of the King Abdullah II Fund for Development.
John Defterios spoke with Bassem Awadallah and asked him whether the increase in U.S. aid to Jordan is recognition of the role that Jordan's been playing in the Middle East, both economically and politically.
Bassem Awadallah (BA): There is a definite recognition of what Jordan has been doing over the last two years. Particularly the efforts that have been conducted by His Majesty the King over the last two years in helping to bring the peace process on track again.
But equally, there is recognition in Washington, as elsewhere in the world, of the reforms that are taking place in Jordan. (Recognition) of what we are trying to do with fiscal management, enabling the investment environment to become much better, and to attract private capital to come in and invest in key sectors of our economy. As a result of this, we have witnessed an increase in the assistance levels from the United States and we hope that this will continue over the next couple of years.
(JD): One could say that U.S. relations in the Middle East specifically in the Gulf are at a historic low. Does this one-week tour by President Bush really alter the outlook between U.S. and Middle East relations?
(BA): To the extent that the Arab countries and the Arab people feel that the United States is committed to play an honest broker and bring about a just and lasting solution to the Palestinian issue, which we feel to be the core issue in the Arab Israeli conflict. To the extent that we see a deliverable on the ground, which means a real improvement in the lives of Palestinians and a real commitment to the peace process. I think you will have a substantial increase in the credibility that the United States commands on the Arab Street. This is the major factor in our opinion that really provides for the U.S. image to be improved in the Arab countries.
(JD): It was a historic week if you look at the big picture: an arms and missile deal worth $20 billion with Saudi Arabia; and at the same time, Gulf investment funds investing in Merrill Lynch and Citigroup. Do you think eventually this will lead to investment protectionism where there's resistance to this money coming from the Gulf and into U.S. and European Markets?
(BA): I think you're going to see a real financial power in the Gulf countries. Obviously, they will be able to afford to develop their economies more. I think they are going to feel that the regional threats are of such magnitude that they would be required to arm themselves more, and this explains why there have been big contracts, not only with the United States, but other countries as well in Europe.
You are going to have some kind of recycling going on which is clearly manifested in the Merrill Lynch and Citigroup investments by Sovereign Wealth Funds. We do hope that these big funds in the Gulf will find some attractive opportunities in the Arab World as well -- in Jordan, in other countries which do require this huge capital investments to improve the infrastructure and to be invested in key sectors of our economies. E-mail to a friend
