It cost Alex Rodriguez nearly $1 million to buy his cousin's silence on "very sensitive" matters, according to court documents.
The Yankees star paid his cousin and former personal assistant Yuri Sucart $900,000 in 2013 and gave him and his family medical insurance, a 2009 Chevrolet Suburban and a 5-bedroom house, in return for Sucart keeping quiet on confidential matters, said documents filed in federal court in Miami.
The alleged hush money came in response to a December 2012 letter from Sucart's attorney, Jeffrey Sonn, threatening a lawsuit and demanding $5 million and a "life estate" for his client.
"Unfortunately for you," the letter said, "litigation with you over [Sucart's] employment agreement will reveal all of his duties you instructed Yuri to perform."
According to court documents, Sucart introduced and personally arranged meetings between Rodriguez and Tony Bosch, the founder of the Biogenesis anti-aging clinic in Miami that is alleged to be at the center of Major League Baseball's largest doping scandal.
Fourteen players were suspended for using performance-enhancing drugs from the now closed clinic, including Rodriguez, who received a 162-game suspension -- the most severe doping penalty in MLB history.
Sucart was arrested in August and charged with conspiracy and distribution of illegal steroids in connection with the scandal.
In court documents, federal prosecutors said the letter from Sucart's lawyer suggested "the defendant would maintain his silence" in exchange for money.
Sonn told CNN Tuesday: "This was not a threat. This was about his (Alex Rodriguez's) promise to employ Yuri Sucart for life and his breach of that agreement. These guys were like brothers."
Rodriguez's lawyer, Joseph Tacopina, could not be reached for comment.
The payments were first reported by the New York Daily News, citing court documents filed last week in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
The letter and subsequent agreement between Rodriguez and Sucart were presented as evidence to support the prosecution's argument that Sucart had lied on a financial document about his ability to pay for a court-appointed attorney.
During his employment, Sucart acted as a "servant" to Rodriguez and "handled matters that were of a very sensitive and confidential nature," according to the 2012 letter from Sucart's attorney.
In 2009, Rodriguez admitted at a news conference that his cousin transported and administered to him a performance enhancing drug from the Dominican Republic.
"He basically took an instruction from me and felt he was doing something that was going to be helpful, not hurtful," Rodriguez said.
From 2003 to 2012, Rodriguez paid Sucart an annual salary ranging from $50,000 to over $110,000 for his services, according to court documents.
Rodriguez employed Sucart beginning in 1996 and paid him through the third quarter of 2013, according to court documents.
According to Sonn, Rodriguez's payments stopped unexpectedly in November 2012, leaving Sucart, his wife and two children in dire straits.
"You ceased providing Yuri and his family, indeed your own family, any support, and he has suffered greatly, financially and emotionally due to your actions," the letter said.
"Given the sudden breach of your longstanding agreement with Yuri," the letter continues, "he wishes to propose that you provide to him payment for his past services rendered, and for the loyalty he has shown to you."
Half a year later, Rodriguez and his cousin reached a settlement under silence and secrecy, according to the documents.
The June 2013 Confidential Settlement Agreement included in the prosecution's evidence details the terms of the deal.
The prosecution also included copies of four receipts for wire transfers totaling $900,000 from Rodriguez to a firm connected to Sucart.
Rodriguez's doping suspension by MLB officially ended last week with the close of the 2014 baseball season. He is eligible to return to the field with the Yankees in 2015.
Sucart faces up to ten years in prison if convicted.
