Juventus secured their sensational return to the elite of Italian football after winning the league title with a regulation 2-0 victory over Cagliari.
Goals from Mirko Vucinic and a Michele Canini own goal handed Juventus the advantage in the race for the Scudetto.
But even though the Old Lady of Turin has gone unbeaten this season, their fate ultimately rested with events at the San Siro stadium where the Milan derby was kicking off simultaneously.
Holders Milan started the day one point behind Juve but knew they had to beat Inter to take the title chase to the final weekend.
What followed was one of the most memorable Milan derbies in recent years, as Inter ran out 4-2 winners with Diego Milito scoring a hat trick, the first person do so in this fixture in almost six decades. The victory handed Juventus title number 28.
Or so you would think.
As fans invaded the pitch in Trieste, where Cagliari are currently playing their matches, some held banners aloft proclaiming the triumph to be Scudetto number 30.
That's because in 2006 the club was stripped of the two titles they won under former England coach Fabio Capello following a match fixing scandal that engulfed the club and saw them relegated to Serie B.
It was a humiliating experience for one of world football's greatest clubs, but this season has seen something close to redemption, as the club has gone 37 games unbeaten under the reign of former Italian international Antonio Conte.
It is his first season in charge.
The team celebrated wildly with the fans in Trieste, while the Rossoneri wondered what might have been in the San Siro.
A highly dubious first half penalty converted by Swedish international Zlatan Ibrahimovic had canceled out Milito's opener.
Ibrahimovic, a former Juve player who has never been forgiven by the fans for leaving the club so soon after their relegation to Serie B, then gave Milan hope scoring his second 30 seconds after the start of the second half.
But Inter powered forward, winning their own penalty converted by Milito to secure his hat trick, before Maicon scored a stunning fourth and sealed Juventus' return to where many believe they have always belonged.
