(CNN Student News) -- April 28, 2014
Headlines from South Korea, Vatican City and Ukraine lead off the week's first edition of CNN Student News. We're wrapping up our Financial Literacy Month coverage by defining a college savings plan, and we're looking at the science behind tornadoes as the storm season ramps up in the U.S.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What are some ways in which news media might play a role in storm preparedness?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. prime minister
2. Enhanced Fujita scale
3. 529 Savings Plan
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What are some events that have followed the sinking of a ferry off the coast of South Korea? What high-ranking government official has resigned? What reason has he given for this action?
2. In what ways was history made yesterday in the Roman Catholic Church? What two popes were declared saints? How did Pope Francis describe these men?
3. According to the video: What signs indicate that Ukraine may be "bracing itself for war"? In a nationally televised speech, what did Ukraine's prime minister say about recent actions by Russia? How has President Obama responded to the heightened tensions in Ukraine? Who are Russian leaders accusing of "orchestrating" the crisis?
4. What is "Tornado Alley"? Where is it located? What factors combine to make this region especially prone to tornado activity? How does tornado activity from this past March compare to that of other years? According to the video, what may be one reason for this?
5. What is the purpose of a 529 Savings Plan? According to the video, what advantage does this method of saving for college have over a traditional savings account?
Discussion Questions:
1. Do you think that the international community should respond to the current situation in Ukraine? If so, how? If not, why not?
2. Do you live in an area that has experienced tornadoes? If so, how does your school and community prepare for these storms? What are some things that you and your family can do to be prepared for violent storms?
3. Are you planning to go to college? If so, what steps are you and your family taking to pay for college costs? Where do you think is a good place to start that process? Whom might you talk to about your options? What online resources might you consult?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
