Few people would consider those with loved ones on AirAsia Flight QZ8501 lucky, but Sarah Bajc has a particular perspective.
"I'm almost a little jealous in a way because, you know, at least they have this ability to put some closure to it," she told CNN's "New Day" on Tuesday, after the wreckage of the AirAsia flight was found.
Her partner, Philip Woods, was on board Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which disappeared without a trace almost 10 months ago.
"We're still in limbo. There's still no evidence as to what happened to the plane," she said, struggling to hold back tears.
Earlier, before the discovery of the AirAsia flight, Bajc described feeling an incredible ache.
She said: "It's a physical pain through your whole body. And just imagining what all those families are feeling as well, I can imagine it. Unfortunately, I know exactly what they're going through."
So does Danica Weeks, whose husband was on MH370. The plane disappeared from radar screens on a flight between Malaysia and China on March 8.
On Sunday, AirAsia Flight QZ8501 went missing over the Java Sea on its way from the Indonesian city of Surabaya to Singapore, with 162 people on board. Debris was recovered Tuesday in the waters off Indonesia.
"The last few days has been torment. It's brought everything back. We're just reliving what we've gone through," Weeks said. "It's a horrible nightmare."
A network of support
Bajc said families of MH370 victims have banded together as they wake up each day without their loved ones.
And it's vital that relatives of AirAsia 8501 reach out for support, Weeks said.
"You just have to call on your close friends and family," she said. "You need to lean on them because they are basically the only way you get through this."
"Nine months, none of us are as strong as we used to be."
Help center closed
In the weeks following MH370's disappearance, the grand ballroom at Beijing's Lido Hotel turned into the briefing room for relatives of those on board the flight.
Every day, the families came in hoping for a miracle. And every day, they left dejected.
On Tuesday, the ballroom was dark and empty. The family assistance center was closed. Many families feel they've been forgotten.
MH370 search carries on
But the search for MH370 goes on.
Crews are still scouring the southern Indian Ocean with a variety of high-tech equipment. But no wreckage has been found.
At the Malaysian government's request, Australia is leading the search efforts.
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau said last week that the mapping of the sea floor continues, and a vessel is still searching underwater for the plane.
"Our work will continue to be thorough and methodical, so sometimes weekly progress may seem slow," the ATSB said. "Please be assured that work is continuing and is aimed at finding MH370 as quickly as possible."
But families of those passengers and crew may have to wait even longer.
"Assuming no significant delays with vessels, equipment or from the weather, the current underwater search area may be largely completed around May 2015," the ATSB said.
Weeks has no choice but to wait.
"We will never find peace until we do what's right by our loved ones, and that's bring them home to us."
