As Democrats head into the last throes of the campaign season, the party and the president are facing some of their lowest favorability and approval ratings, respectively, according to two new surveys.
President Barack Obama hit his lowest point in the eyes of the public according to that poll, with just 40% of Americans approving of his job performance, the latest Washington Post/ABC News poll released Wednesday shows. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll also released Wednesday handed Obama a similar 42% approval rating.
And Obama could be pulling down his party as just 39% of Americans hold a favorable view of the Democratic Party, the lowest in modern history according to the Washington Post/ABC News poll.
Obama steps (cautiously) back into campaign mode
That's a ten-point drop for Democrats from the same poll in August and the decline comes in part from a dropoff among African-Americans and women -- two key voter blocs Democrats will need to turn out on Nov. 4.
The numbers come less than three weeks before Election Day in a cycle where the President's sagging approval numbers have been blamed for impacting Democratic candidates, especially in crucial toss-up Senate races that could help Republicans take full control of Congress.
Republicans have picked up on the President's low approval ratings in battleground states by linking Democratic -- and even independent candidates in Kansas and South Dakota -- to the president.
Chamber ad seeks to tie independent to Obama
And Obama has mostly avoided the campaign trail this cycle, particularly Senate contests. But Obama will hit the road to help seven gubernatorial candidates mobilize supporters in the final weeks of campaigning.
Some Democratic Senate candidates have attempted to deflect Republican attacks throughout the campaign by distancing themselves from Obama policies on key issues. Kentucky's Alison Lundergan Grimes, for example, declared in an ad that she's "not Barack Obama."
And a range of issues could be shaking Americans' confidence in the President and his party: from the ISIS threat to the public fears over the Ebola disease that has made it onto U.S. soil.
Republicans continued to register lower favorability marks than Democrats with just 33% expressing a positive view of the GOP. And among independents, Democrats also edged out the GOP with 33% favorability compared to 28% for Republicans.
But the public doesn't parse on partisan politics when it comes to rating Congress, slamming the legislature with an 83% disapproval rating according to a September CNN/ORC poll.
