Actress Lindsay Lohan called 911 to ask for police help during an "incident" at the Betty Ford Center, her lawyer said Wednesday.
The statement from Shawn Chapman Holley came after the rehab center fired an employee who reportedly leaked details of a tussle with Lohan.
Holley declined to comment on what happened in the incident, but added that "it should be noted" that it was Lohan who called the police.
Authorities in the Southern California city of Palm Desert confirmed Tuesday that they are investigating a claim that Lohan assaulted an employee at the center.
Meanwhile, the employee, Dawn Holland, has hired a lawyer with an eye to filing employment and civil rights claims against the center.
Holland was "targeted, unmercifully interrogated, intimidated and threatened with her livelihood" by the treatment center, lawyer Keith Davidson said.
The accusations have thrust the actress back into the spotlight.
"The incident involved Lindsay Lohan and another female adult -- a staff member at the location and was reported as a suspect in the investigation," the Palm Desert Police Department said. "The victim desires prosecution and the incident is being investigated as a misdemeanor committed not in the presence of a police officer."
The employee was fired after information was leaked to the media, the center said Tuesday.
"When patients come to the center for treatment, they come to a safe place where their identity is protected, where anonymity is safeguarded," the center said in a statement.
"Regrettably, on December 21, 2010, one of our employees violated strict confidentiality guidelines and laws by publicly identifying patients in a media interview and by disclosing a privileged document.That employee has been terminated by the Betty Ford Center."
The center did not confirm that Holland is the employee in question.
Lohan checked into the Betty Ford Center on September 27, after it became clear a judge intended to send her to jail because of a failed drug test.
The judge eventually ordered Lohan to stay in the drug rehabilitation program until January 3 instead of going to jail.
If Lohan  violates the rules of her rehab program or fails a drug test before her next court date in February, she will be sent to jail for 180 days, a Los Angeles Superior Court has ordered.
CNN's Brittany Kaplan contributed to this report.
