World No. 1 Novak Djokovic battled back from the brink of defeat at the French Open on Tuesday to rescue his hopes of becoming the first man in 43 years to hold all four grand slam titles.
The Serbian saved four match-points before finally overcoming home favorite Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the quarterfinals.
Djokovic, who has never reached the final at Roland Garros, triumphed 6-1 5-7 5-7 7-6 (8-6) 6-1 against the fifth seed in a scintillating match lasting just over four hours.
The 25-year-old set up a rematch with 16-time grand slam champion Roger Federer, who beat Djokovic in the Paris semifinals last year to end his 43-match winning run.
"He was the better player for most of the match and I was fortunate to come back from four match-points down. It was an incredible match," said Djokovic, who won the first and fifth sets in a combined time of just 53 minutes.
The hopes of a nation had rested on Tsonga, playing in the quarterfinals of his home event for the first time, but France's wait for a first male champion since Yannick Noah in 1983 must continue.
Instead, Djokovic will have a day's rest before continuing his bid to match Australia's Rod Laver, who twice won all four grand slams in a calendar year -- as an amateur in 1962 and then as a professional at the start of the Open era in 1969.
"I did what I said I would and gave everything. I came close and I would have loved to have won," said Tsonga, who had vowed before the match to "fight like a lion."
"It's a shame because I was pretty close, but at the end I had no energy left. Now I will have to close this chapter," the 27-year-old added.
Federer reached the last four at a major for a record-equaling 31st time as he came from two sets down to end the hopes of injury-hampered Juan Martin Del Potro.
The Swiss third seed won 3-6 6-7 (4-7) 6-2 6-0 6-3 in a virtual repeat of their 2009 semifinal, when Federer went on to claim the Roland Garros crown for the first and only time in his illustrious career.
Del Potro avenged that defeat by beating Federer in the 2009 U.S. Open final for his only major success, but this time the Argentine ninth seed could not maintain his ferocious opening momentum.
"I knew Juan Martin's knee was bothering him and was trying to finish the rallies quickly," Federer said. "I knew it would be a big fight today."
The other two quarterfinals will be played on Wednesday, when world No. 2 Rafael Nadal continues his bid for a record seventh title as he takes on fellow Spaniard Nicolas Almagro, the 12th seed.
Britain's world No. 4 Andy Murray faces a big test of his hopes of winning his first grand slam as he lines up against sixth seed David Ferrer, who has won all of their three clay clashes.
