Tiger Woods completed the victory formalities at the WGC-Bridgestone tournament Sunday and immediately turned his attentions to the final major of the season, which starts later this week.
Woods has been marooned on 14 majors for five years, but his form in 2013, this was his fifth win of the season and by a resounding seven shots, gives him hope that drought will end by next weekend.
He will head for Oak Hill in New York as overwhelming favorite for the PGA Championship and with renewed confidence.
"I'm really looking forward to it," he said after completing a final round of level-par 70 on the Firestone Course at Akron, Ohio.
"I feel like my game is pretty consistent and I'm hitting it pretty good."
Woods admitted to adopting a conservative approach to his play on the final day of a tournament he has now won a record eight times.
The World No.1 was never threatened with playing partner Henrik Stenson concentrating on his battle for second place.
The Swede made a testing two-putt on the final green to also close with a 70 and finish in a share of the runners-up spot with reigning champion Keegan Bradley on eight-under.
Woods, who finished on 15-under 265, will be paired with Bradley and Davis Love II for the first two rounds of the PGA Championship on Thursday and Friday.
He will be hoping to repeat the sort of heroics which saw him card a joint career best nine-under 61 on Friday to open up a massive lead in the WGC event he has made his own on a course which he said "fits my eye."
Tapping in for par on the last, Woods was winning his 79th PGA Tour title and 18th WGC crown.
Spanish veteran Miguel Angel Jimenez and Zach Johnson finished tied for fourth on six-under.
Northern Ireland's Rory McIlroy, who will be defending his PGA Championship title, was well off the pace again on two-over.
Woods, whose last victory at a major came in the 2008 U.S. Open, has flattered to deceive in this season's three to date, with indifferent play on the weekend wrecking his chances.
He is chasing the all-time record of 18 by the great Jack Nicklaus.
