Ahead of the 31st anniversary of the Iranian Revolution, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said his country will show its support to the revolution on February 11.
"Our revolution has changed the patterns and the equations of the world," he said in a nationally televised interview.
Ahmadinejad spoke on the occasion of the Ten Days of Dawn, which lead up to the anniversary of the Islamic Revolution.
He said that enemies who plotted against Iran during the election protests last year continue to plot, but despite all the economic sanctions on the country, they are not succeeding.
"This year, they have mobilized themselves again to harm the Iranian nation and to stop them, but they failed," he said, adding that the capitalist powers who are against Iran have peaked.
Specifically, he cited the United States and United Kingdom as nations that have tried to interfere with Iran's domestic issues.
"They adopted their stances, and they failed," Ahmadinejad said. "This is a clear defeat for them."
On the nuclear issue, Ahmadinejad said that Iran seeks such production for peaceful purposes only. The United States and other nations have expressed concern that Iran wants to acquire nuclear weapons.
The same countries who doubt Iran could, instead, partner with Iran and build the nuclear plants themselves if they wanted, he said.
"Russia, France and the United States can come and sign contracts to build the power plants. It serves our interests as well as theirs. Of course, if they don't come to do this, we will reach a point [where we will] build our own power plant," he said.
The Iranian leader also mentioned the three American hikers who have been detained, saying that negotiations are ongoing.
"We don't like anyone in jail or in prison, but these people have violated our borders, and it has a defined penalty," he said, adding that there are Iranians "languishing within American jails."
He hinted at a possible prisoner swap.
"We are approaching this from a humanitarian perspective and see how it goes," Ahmadinejad said.
U.S. State Department spokesman Gordon Duguid said the United States is prepared to answer any questions about Iranians in U.S. custody.
"It's hard to know what he meant from these fragmentary comments, but we have made clear that we want consular access to our citizens in Iranian custody," Duguid said. "If President Ahmadinejad's comments suggest that they are prepared to grant us access through the Swiss and resolve the cases of the three hikers and others in custody, we would welcome that step. It is long overdue."
CNN's Jill Dougherty contributed to this report.
