(CNN Student News) -- August 15, 2014
You know that current events are at the core of our coverage on CNN Student News, and today's show has them. But we're also including stories that involve mathematics and engineering, as we report on the Fields Medal and the 100th anniversary of a canal that bridged two oceans. We'll also show you how one Minnesota couple literally took the plunge to exchange vows.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Check this space for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News.
1. In which Middle Eastern country is Mount Sinjar located?
2. What manmade waterway, joining the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, was opened 100 years ago?
3. What award was recently presented to Maryam Mirzakhani for her research in mathematics?
4. In what U.S. state has the town of Ferguson seen unrest since a shooting on August 9?
5. Tim Howard has been nicknamed "secretary of defense" for his performance at what international soccer tournament?
6. The spread of what deadly virus has prompted the World Health Organization to ethically approve the use of experimental drug treatment?
7. What American actor voiced the character of Ramon in Happy Feet?
8. The NASA telescope "NuStar" has been searching for evidence of what mysterious, celestial phenomenon?
9. What organization oversees and makes the rules for most college sports in the U.S.?
10. What neighboring country recently attempted to send a convoy of 280 trucks to Ukraine?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
