(CNN Student News) -- January 14, 2014
It's not every day that the three branches of U.S. government intersect, but we're breaking down why and how in today's edition of CNN Student News. We also report on water pollution in West Virginia, a security warning regarding the Sochi Olympics, and a student who refuses to let Down Syndrome keep him from going to college.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might public health officials use media to inform residents of a potentially dangerous situation?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. advice and consent
2. recess appointments
3. parts per million (ppm)
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is the focus of the case between Congress and the president that was heard before the Supreme Court yesterday?
2. Why did officials in some parts of West Virginia tell residents not to use their tap water? According to the video, how are residents dealing with the ban?
3. Where will this year's Winter Olympics be held? Why did the U.S. State Department issue a travel warning for Americans going there?
Discussion Questions:
1. If you were arguing each side in the Supreme Court case discussed in today's program, what points would you make? In this case, do you think that the framers of the Constitution would be more sympathetic to the president or to the Congress? Why?
2. What other examples of checks and balances can you recall from other recent news stories? In each case, did any one branch of government have an advantage? Explain.
3. Have you ever had to deal with a water emergency due to a storm or other catastrophe? If so, how did you work around it? If not, how would you handle a ban on tap water if your community were faced with it? What would you do?
4. What different roles and responsibilities fall under the U.S. Department of State regarding Americans' travel? What kinds of situations might prompt an American traveler to contact the State Department for help?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
