Mexican boxer Juan Manuel Marquez wants a third clash with Manny Pacquiao following Saturday night's successful defense of his WBA and WBO lightweight titles.
The 37-year-old stopped Australia's Michael Katsidis on a technical knockout in the ninth round in Las Vegas to take his record to 52-5 with 38 KOs.
The only draw of his career came against Pacquiao in 2004 when he retained his WBA and IBF featherweight titles, but he lost his WBC super featherweight belt in a controversial split decision to the Filipino in 2008.
"We know that Pacquiao has been avoiding us. We will put a lot of work into it, and a third fight is what the public wants to see," Marquez told reporters after beating Katsidis, whose brother Stathi -- a horse-racing jockey -- died last month.
"Yes he beat bigger fellows but they are all past their prime, while I beat younger and stronger boxers like Juan Diaz and Michael Katsidis."
However, one stumbling block to a rematch is that Marquez wants it at the weight limit of 140-142 pounds, while Pacquiao's trainer Freddie Roach says he wants to fight at 147.
"I know he can make that weight as when he fought Margarito [this month], he was just 144 pounds. So if they insist in fighting at 147, like Freddie Roach has mentioned, they are again giving excuses."
However, Pacquiao doubts that the public wants to see him fight Marquez again, The Philippine Star reported on Sunday.
"Will they still watch it?" Pacquiao said in Manila.
The newspaper said Pacquiao's business manager Eric Pineda would accept the fight if Marquez promoted it.
"Manny thinks Marquez has a small fan base, that's why he doesn't want any hand in the promotion. All he wants is a guaranteed purse, and that Top Rank and MP Promotions won't be involved in the promotions. Then he will take the fight," Pineda said.
Following his win over Antonio Margarito two weeks ago, Pacquiao has been linked with a bout against American veteran Shane Mosley, who he has yet to encounter.
Pacquiao has this year juggled his political career with two successful fights, beating Joshua Clottey before stopping Margarito to become the first man to win world titles in eight weight categories.
