It's 25 years since the end of Communist rule in Romania, and although much may have changed in the East European nation, its production line of gymnasts continues to generate champions.
From Nadia Comaneci, the sport's first "perfect 10" back in the 1970s, to multiple '80s gold medalist Ecaterina Szabo and the post-revolution exploits of Simona Amanar, the country's young women have set benchmarks of excellence.
Standing less than five foot tall, but with deceptively long legs, the 18-year-old Larisa Iordache is the latest to be dubbed the "New Nadia."
Having helped Romania to a team bronze at the London 2012 Olympics, she has blossomed this year -- claiming two golds at the European championships as the only gymnast to qualify for all four finals and finishing runner-up in the all-round competition at last week's worlds in China.
"I didn't choose gymnastics -- it chose me. It just happened. I am very glad to have got so far," she tells CNN's Human to Hero series.
Iordache was spotted as a child playing in a park, chasing her brother on rollerblades.
"I think she noticed the speed and the energy and that impressed her," Iordache says of the woman who became her first coach, Mariana Câmpeanu-Silişteanu.
Rollerblading was probably not the sort of pastime available to children during the reign of president Nicolae Ceaușescu, whose bloody overthrow in 1989 signaled the beginning of a new era.
"I was born after Communism, however my parents told me about how much stricter things were back then compared to now," Iordache says.
"Now it's a very open country and people survive by doing what they can -- it's much easier than before. I'm glad I didn't live through that."
Nonetheless, she learned the rewards of hard work when, aged five, she joined Bucharest's CS7 Dinamo Club -- an institution renowned for producing champions in a wide range of sports.
And when she was selected to the junior squad at the age of 10, she realized how important gymnastics was to her.
"It was a new path that I had to try out and try to go all the way to the end, trusting myself as much as I could," she recalls.
It didn't take long for her to appreciate the thrill of performing in front of a crowd.
"I loved being watched by people," she says. "It's so important, when you've been working hard, to be able to show what you've worked for daily."
Iordache describes her sport as a "beautiful story that encompasses in all domains an elegance and attention that you have to display when working on the apparatuses, the determination you need to show on each, the pleasure as well."
"You can't succeed without pleasure and desire," she says.
