Investigators released photographs Wednesday showing a man wanted in the case of a slain woman and her missing 7-year-old daughter.
The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation released images taken by a security camera of 37-year-old Tonya Hobbs and her estranged husband, Lester Williams Hobbs, as they shopped for food just hours before Tonya Hobbs was killed.
Police have charged Lester Hobbs with murder in his estranged wife's death. They also have charged him with kidnapping Tonya Hobbs' daughter, Aja Daniell Johnson, the bureau said Wednesday.
"These new pictures show the suspect car that is now missing as well as what the suspect, Lester Hobbs, looks like and the clothes he may be wearing now," a bureau spokeswoman, Jessica Brown, said in a statement.
Investigators have asked anyone with information about Hobbs or Aja to call a new hotline number at 1-800-THE-LOST.
The images released Wednesday were taken about 5:15 p.m. Saturday at a store in Lawton, Oklahoma. Shortly after that, the couple and Aja apparently went to the home of Lester Hobbs' sister to eat, police said.
Hobbs was found dead in a parked RV the next day in Geronimo, Oklahoma. Her daughter has been missing since then.
"We've got to find that little girl," Special Agent Ray Homer of the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation said this week.
The girl has a medical condition that requires medication, police have said, though they declined to elaborate.
Lester Hobbs, 46, and Aja are presumed to be in Hobbs' car -- a white 1992 Toyota Paseo with an Oklahoma tag number 577-BPW, police said.
Police have searched for them in Oklahoma and Texas.
Lester and Tonya Hobbs were separated, but apparently Tonya Hobbs was visiting her estranged husband in an attempt to reconcile, Richard Goss, agent in charge of the state bureau of investigation's Lawton, Oklahoma, office, told reporters this week.
Lester Hobbs is not Aja's biological father, police said. He has an extensive criminal history, Goss said, without elaborating.
Aja's biological father was awarded emergency custody of her in November, according to Oklahoma County District Court documents obtained by CNN affiliate KWTV of Oklahoma City.
At a hearing, Tonya Hobbs -- identified as Tonya Dunkin in the documents -- and the girl's father, John Johnson, agreed that she would have supervised visitation with Aja and keep the girl away from Lester Hobbs, the documents said.
