(CNN Student News) -- February 20, 2014
What's behind the unrest in three world capitals? Today's CNN Student News takes a look at developments in Kiev, Bangkok and Caracas. We continue our global coverage with a snapshot of unemployment levels around the world. And we deliver a Character Study of a young NBA team member.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What perspectives do you think that journalists should include when covering stories about protest movements?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. socialism
2. contract workers
3. Philadelphia 76ers
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What are the capital cities of Ukraine, Thailand and Venezuela? How would you describe what is happening in each of these cities?
2. According to the video: What's been the general trend in Japanese job numbers? What is holding consumer spending back, and why? In the UAE, how has the Arab Spring impacted job numbers there? What segment of the society seems to be most impacted? What's been happening to the unemployment rate in the UK since 2011? Did the creation of new jobs keep pace with those entering the employment market? Why were the last two employment reports out of the U.S. disappointing? Why are some economists cautioning not to read too much into these numbers?
3. Who is Kevin Grow? What was his position on his high school basketball team? What happened when his coach put him into the game? What NBA team signed him to a two-day contract? How have fans reacted?
Discussion Questions:
1. What challenges might reporters face when covering stories about violent protests? Do you think that these stories need to be told? Why or why not?
2. How does a country's unemployment rate give us a glimpse into the state of that country's economy? Why might a period of political unrest be damaging to a national economy? What role might uncertainty play in consumers' spending?
3. Why do you think that the 76ers signed a contract with Kevin Grow? What message does this send to their fans? How do you think he impacts the team? Are you aware of other professional teams who have signed individuals in a symbolic way? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
