Ted Ligety's winning streak in the giant slalom is over.
Ligety made it four victories in a row last week in Beaver Creek, Colorado to become the first man since legendary Italian Alberto Tomba more than 20 years ago to achieve that feat but his race was quickly over in Val d'Isere, France on Saturday.
Starting first in the first run -- usually not an enviable bib number -- the American went wide on a turn and couldn't make the next gate on the icy Face de Bellevarde.
The last time he finished off the podium in the giant slalom was in 2012 and he failed to make the 30-man second run for the first time since 2009.
"Just a little bit (of) bad luck on my part today," Ligety told reporters. "This course is always super, super bumpy and miserable to ski so I wasn't surprised by that at all.
"It's not ideal. It's the kind of hill where anything can really happen, because it's such a tough and rough and bumpy hill."
Former overall champion Bode Miller -- second behind teammate Ligety in Beaver Creek -- and current overall leader Aksel Lund Svindal of Norway also couldn't complete the first run.
Austrian Marcel Hirscher took advantage of Ligety's mishap to win, rallying from a 0.41-second deficit after the first run to cruise past Thomas Fanara of France and Stefan Luitz of Germany.
Frenchman Alexis Pinturault, the leader entering the second run, slipped to fourth.
Gut seventh in St. Moritz
In the women's Super-G in St. Moritz, Switzerland, Tina Weirather of Liechtenstein -- who registered two second-place finishes in Lake Louise, Canada last week -- beat surprise package Kling Kajsa of Sweden by 0.31 seconds.
The win was a birthday gift for Weirather's mom, Hanni Wenzel, a gold medalist in the slalom at the world championships in St. Moritz in 1974.
"It's an awesome story to win here today in front of my mother on such a special day," Weirather was quoted as saying by the website of alpine skiing's governing body. "The goal was to give her a nice present."
Kajsa finished on the podium from a starting position of 44th but overall leader Lara Gut of Switzerland only managed a seventh.
Weirather is now fewer than 40 points behind Gut in the overall standings.
Two months ahead of the Sochi Olympics, Lindsey Vonn elected to sit out this weekend's races. The four-time overall champion only recently returned to action after a crash in training last month.
