World No. 3 Maria Sharapova has blasted the ruling body of women's tennis over its demands for top players ahead of this month's Italian Open in Rome.
Maria Sharpova is furious after being threatened with a $300,000 fine by the WTA.
The Australian Open champion is furious after being threatened with a $300,000 fine if she does not participate in a publicity event before the Tier 1 tournament.
"I want all my fans to know that the WTA Tour is forcing me and several of the other top players to do a four-hour commercial shoot for WTA Tour marketing materials," Sharapova told her Web site.
"They want me to do this shoot on Sunday, Monday or Tuesday of the Rome tournament after flying 12 hours from Los Angeles.
"I have set my own personal rules when it comes to doing shoots and I never do shoots before tournaments because they are mentally draining and I want to just focus on my tennis.
"Now the WTA is telling me if I don't do this shoot they will fine me over $300,000. As you can see the WTA Tour loves to fine players.
"To be honest, I would love to do this and help promote the tour as much as possible, but to force me to do this shoot the day before a Tier 1 tournament is just not right."
The 21-year-old will be returning to action in the event starting May 12 after skipping Russia's Fed Cup semifinal against the United States last weekend.
She was beaten by Serena Williams in the quarterfinals of the Family Circle Cup in Charleston in her last outing two weeks ago.
Sharapova also made a statement explaining her absence from the German Open in Berlin starting on May 5.
"The WTA Tour makes many players enter tournaments that they know the players will not be playing," she told her Web site. "I informed the WTA several months ago that if I played Charleston, I would have to pull out of Berlin.
"Now they are forcing me to give an injury for the reason why I am pulling out or they will give me an additional fine on top of the $125,000 fine already given me. I am a very giving person but I refuse to give any more of my money to the WTA Tour.
"So I want everyone to know that apart from getting sick the past few days, I am healthy and I am looking forward to playing Rome."
Meanwhile, top seed Vera Zvonareva has reached the final of the Czech Open in Prague, beating Slovenian fourth seed Katarina Srebotnik 6-2 6-4 on Saturday.
The Russian will next play either third seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus or seventh-seeded Czech Klara Zakopalova as she seeks to clinch her first title this season on Sunday.
In Morocco, second seed Gisela Dulko of Argentina reached Sunday's final of the Grand Prix SAR La Princesse Lalla Meryem after beating French fourth seed Aravane Rezai 7-6 (8-6) 6-3 in Fez.
Top seed Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain will face Greta Arn of Hungary in Saturday's other semifinal. E-mail to a friend
