(CNN Student News) -- May 1, 2014
This Thursday, we cover how nationwide elections were unfolding in Iraq, how floods are forcing rescuers to get creative in Florida, and how the MERS virus is causing concern in the Middle East. We also look into the technology and controversy surrounding traffic light cameras, and we show you how a Yale study is going to the dogs.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might social media help educate audiences about disease outbreaks? How might you determine if a social media source is credible on this topic?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. sectarian violence
2. MERS
3. citation
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What Middle Eastern country held its first elections since U.S. troops left in 2011? What was the current prime minister predicting regarding voter turnout? What was the cause of the deaths of at least seven people at polling places yesterday? What different groups are responsible for the violence in this country?
2. What kind of natural disaster hit parts of Florida and Alabama after the same storm system brought tornadoes to the central and southeastern U.S.? Approximately how much rain fell in 24 hours in parts of Alabama and Florida?
3. What is MERS? What are some of its symptoms? According to the video, what do reported cases of this disease have in common? Where was this disease first detected? In what regions of the world has it been reported? Why are some concerned about the number of cases? How have authorities responded to this concern?
4. According to the video: Approximately how many traffic light cameras exist in the U.S. today? What happens to the images taken by some of these cameras? Who decides whether to issue tickets to the drivers? What might be some benefits and downsides to these cameras?
Discussion Questions:
1. Do you think it is important to know something about political systems in countries other than your own? Why or why not? How might knowledge of another country's government be of value to students, leaders and businesspeople living outside that country?
2. In the video, we learn that MERS is a type of coronavirus. What do you know about viruses? Where would you go to learn more about this kind of virus and how it is spread?
3. What is your opinion of traffic light cameras? Do you support or oppose their use? State your rationale.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
