American golfer Johnson Wagner celebrated a new year with a new look and new-found confidence as he booked his spot at the Masters in Augusta with victory at the Sony Open in Hawaii on Sunday.
The 31-year-old clinched his third PGA Tour title and rocketed up 106 places in the rankings to 92nd as he took the early lead in the FedEx Cup series, scooping the $990,000 first prize.
Sporting a mustache he started growing last year during the off-season, he carded a three-under-par 67 in his final round to win by two shots at the Waialae Country Club.
"I was definitely telling people to expect something early this year, which is a nice feeling," Wagner told the PGA Tour's official website after following up his tie for ninth place in the season-opening Tournament of Champions at Kapalua last weekend.
"Usually, my confidence is low. I'm kind of shy in a little shell. And for some reason, I just had way more energy and confidence going into this year."
He revealed that he will keep his facial furniture after qualifying for April's opening major of the season, having won almost as much in two starts this year as he did in the whole of 2011 -- when his only win came in Mexico in February.
"I kind of made a deal with myself in December that if I was to get into the Masters, then I was going to keep the mustache for at least this year," he said after a bogey-free last 12 holes saw him finish on 13 under ahead of a four-way tie for second.
"Everybody said, 'Oh, is it a Movember mustache? Well, it's December, time to shave it.' I said, 'Look, this is not a one-month mustache. This is potentially a 10-year mustache.'"
Behind Wagner on 11 under was Sweden-born Carl Petterson (67), playing in his first tournament since becoming a U.S. citizen, and Americans Sean O'Hair (67), Harrison Frazar (67) and Charles Howell III (69).
Their compatriots Michael Thompson (67), Brian Gay (67), D.A. Points (69) and Matt Every (72) tied for sixth on 10 under.
John Rollins of the U.S. carded the best round of the day, hitting a superb 64 to finish alongside Canada's David Hearn (69) and Brendan de Jonge (71) of Zimbabwe in 10th.
Keegan Bradley, the 2011 PGA Championship winner, shot 70 to finish on eight under in an six-way tie for 13th place.
World No. 5 Steve Stricker, who won in Hawaii last Sunday, was nine shots behind Wagner after closing with 74.
He was level with 2011 money list runner-up Webb Simpson (68), South Korean veteran K.J. Choi (71) and 2010 U.S. Ryder Cup captain Corey Pavin (71).
