The storm recently known as Jova has dissipated over western Mexico, but its rains and flooding were responsible for at least six deaths, officials said.
In the Mexican state of Colima, one person was swept away in a car by rushing water on the highway, state civil protection spokesman Luis Enrique Venegas told CNN.
Three others in Colima were reported missing, he said.
"The main problem for us is damage to roads, bridges and streets. Infrastructure was severely affected by this hurricane and it's going to take a while to get back to normal," he said "We're trying to reopen roads as soon as possible."
Jova struck Mexico as a Category 2 hurricane late Tuesday, packing winds of more than 100 miles per hour. It weakened into a tropical storm and then a tropical depression as it moved over western Mexico Wednesday.
In Jalisco state, civil protection authorities said that they found a body after a mudslide, the state-run Notimex news agency reported. A total of five people have died in Jalisco, the agency reported.
The bodies were found as the focus Thursday shifted to cleanup along Mexico's Pacific coast, while the floodwaters from Jova recede.
Some residents took to rooftops in the resort town of Manzanillo, one of the hardest-hit areas, as a normally small stream turned into a raging river. Water was waist-deep in some areas on Wednesday.
At least 1,400 people were in shelters, police said.
"The roads are all flooded. Bridges are about to fall down. Cars can't get through anywhere. People's homes are destroyed," Manzanillo resident Seth Berkowitz said. "What came through here has really been a terrible disaster for everybody."
Floodwaters rushed into many homes in low-lying areas of Manzanillo.
Resident Roberto Robles lost most of his furniture and spent Wednesday dealing with massive amounts of mud inside his home.
"We were really afraid, especially for the children, who still don't understand what a hurricane is," he said.
Javier Velasquez said mud ruined his refrigerator when his kitchen filled with water in the early morning hours.
"Only God knows why something like this happens," he said. "They had warned us, but we thought they were crying wolf."
