A fresh round of clues arrived this week from two Republican lawmakers who are regularly asked about their desire to pursue their party's nomination in 2016.
While each cited different reasons, both Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida and Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas say they're now more interested in running.
Rubio says the current Senate gridlock is limiting his ability to advocate for the kind of policies he sees as critical for moving America forward and that the White House might be a better place for that.
"I'll have to make a decision in 2016 either way, because I'm up for re-election in the Senate. And for me it's not going to be about the position, it's going to be about where can I best advocate for a 21st century reform agenda that allows us to usher in another American century," Rubio told CBS' "Face the Nation."
"The decision I have to make is can I best do that as a senator, or can I best do that as running and hopefully winning a presidency," he said. "And that's a question I'll have more clarity on after this mid-term, because I can promise you this: the one place where I will not be able to do that from is a Senate that is still run by [Majority Leader] Harry Reid that allows no votes on anything of substance or importance."
Cruz, however, says that in addition to midterm election outcomes, events outside of Washington are playing into his decision.
In an interview with ABC News, Cruz again denounced President Barack Obama's foreign policy and said he thinks voters want the United States to play a more prominent role in world affairs.
"The American people in 2014 and also November 2016 are going to be looking for leaders who want to work to restore America's leadership in the world," Cruz said.
One factor Cruz said is impacting his decision to seek higher office: the debate in the Republican Party on how deeply the United States should be enmeshed in global crises.
"It increases my interest in doing everything I can to change the direction we're on," Cruz said.
On some issues, Paul and Christie sound a lot alike
CNN's Leigh Ann Caldwell contributed to this report.
