The wedding of a Boston, Massachusetts, medical student accused of killing a woman he met through Craigslist has been called off, his fiancee's lawyer said.
The wedding of accused "Craigslist killer" Phillip Markoff and his fiancee, Megan McAllister, has been called off.
Megan McAllister, who was accompanied by her mother, met Phillip Markoff for about 25 minutes in a Boston jail earlier this week, her lawyer Robert Honecker told CNN affiliate WCVB.
"It was an emotional conversation on both sides," Honecker said, adding that McAllister is planning to move back to her home state of New Jersey.
"There is still a love and commitment to that person, and I think that obviously realizing what has now happened, that she has to take steps to do what she has to do on her life," Honecker told WCVB. She plans to move on, he said.
"There are things that she has to do, and I think the process begins today," Honecker told WCVB.
Honecker told ABC on Thursday that the wedding "will not occur."  Watch lawyer tell reporters that Megan McAllister is ready to move on »
McAllister maintained her fiance's innocence in an e-mail sent to ABC News in early April. In the e-mail, McAllister said police have the wrong man and Markoff "was set up."
McAllister's visit was her first since Markoff was arraigned last week on murder charges in the killing of a woman whom authorities say he met through Craigslist, a popular online classifieds service.
Markoff, 23, a second-year student at Boston University's School of Medicine, is charged with killing Julissa Brisman on April 14 at a Boston hotel. Police said Brisman, a model from New York, advertised as a masseuse on Craigslist.
Prosecutors say Brisman was shot three times at close range and suffered blunt head trauma. Markoff is also charged in connection with an April 10 robbery of Trisha Leffler, 29, at another hotel in Boston. Leffler also met Brisman on Craigslist.
Leffler was robbed of $800 in cash and $250 in American Express gift cards, according to police reports.
Markoff has pleaded not guilty and is being held without bail.
