The Montana newlywed accused of killing her husband by pushing him off a cliff has traded her bridal gown for an orange jumpsuit and handcuffs.
Jordan Linn Graham, who's charged with second-degree murder, broke down in tears when her mom walked into a courtroom on Wednesday, but remained composed for most of the detention hearing.
The 22-year-old's attorneys asked a judge to release her from jail and place her under home confinement with electronic monitoring.
But prosecutors said she should remain behind bars, arguing that she had lied to authorities, tried to cover up the crime and was at risk of harming herself.
The judge said he would rule on the matter by Thursday.
Prosecutors say that Graham shoved Cody Johnson face-first off a steep cliff just eight days into their marriage.
New details in the case emerged during Wednesday's hearing, including an argument from prosecutors that a fake e-mail account had been created just days after Johnson's death as part of what appeared to be an attempt to cover up the alleged killing.
Graham and Johnson had been married just more than a week when an argument in early July allegedly escalated to a case of second-degree murder.
If convicted, Graham will face life in prison.
According to a criminal complaint, Graham told a friend she was having second thoughts about marrying Johnson.
The complaint said the couple argued the night of July 7. Upset, they decided to go hiking in Glacier National Park in Flathead County, Montana, where they continued to fight.
Graham told police that her husband grabbed her by the arm. She turned and removed his hand.
"Graham stated she could have just walked away, but due to her anger, she pushed Johnson with both hands in the back and as a result, he fell face first off the cliff," the complaint read.
His body was discovered several days later.
According to the complaint, Graham changed her story about what happened several times.
Graham's attorney, Michael Donahoe, declined to comment on the case.
"Any time we asked Cody how the relationship was, he always said it was good," friend Cameron Fredrickson said. "It's a complete shock to me. Cody is one of the greatest guys I've had the opportunity to know."
According to the complaint, Graham reportedly told a friend she planned to talk with Johnson about her reservations on July 7. The same day, Graham sent the friend a text message saying, "Oh well, I'm about to talk to him."
The friend responded, "I'll pray for you guys."
Graham wrote back: "But dead serious if u don't hear from me at all again tonight, something happened."
