Villarreal were denied the chance to return to the top of Spain's La Liga after an incident-packed 2-2 draw at promoted Hercules on Monday night in which three players were sent off.
Hercules led 2-1 with goals from new signings Nelson Valdez and David Trezeguet, but the latter was sent off just before halftime and Villarreal leveled through Borja Valero -- who later left the field for a second yellow card before defender Mateo Musacchio received a straight red.
The visitors, who would have moved a point clear of Real Madrid with victory in Alicante, hit the post early on through Brazilian striker Nilmar but fell behind in the 26th minute when Paraguay striker Valdez scored following Royston Drenthe's free-kick.
Spain full-back Joan Capdevila equalized from close range three minutes later following a low Angel Lopez cross, then teammate Giuseppe Rossi hit the post.
However, Trezeguet pounced to net his fourth league goal since arriving from Juventus when Villarreal could not clear Drenthe's right-wing cross, but the 33-year-old former France star was dismissed for two quickfire yellow cards for dissent after Valero fouled Valdez.
Villarreal made their extra man pay off just after the hour mark when Valero drilled in a right-foot low shot after home goalkeeper Jose Calatayud blocked efforts from Nilmar  and Rossi.
Villarreal wasted several more chances before losing Valero in the 81st minute when the on-loan midfielder was booked for handball, then three minutes later Musacchio brought down Drenthe with the Argentine ruled to be the last line of defense.
That gave Hercules the advantage, but Drenthe and Abraham Paz were denied in injury-time by goalkeeper Diego Lopez.
The result left Villarreal in second place above Barcelona and Valencia on goal difference, with all three teams having 16 points from seven matches.
Hercules are 10th in the 20-team league, with eight points -- nine behind Real and above Real Mallorca, Sporting Gijon and Levante on goal difference.
Meanwhile, Blackburn Rovers survived the first-half dismissal of key defender Christopher Samba to earn a 0-0 draw at home to Sunderland in Monday's only English Premier League clash.
The Congo international was sent off in the third minute of injury-time after bringing down Sunderland's on-loan striker Danny Welbeck just outside the penalty area.
The draw -- Sunderland's fifth in a row -- left both teams just three points above the bottom three after eight games.
