Two-time English FA Cup holders Chelsea needed a late goal from substitute Salomon Kalou to stay in the competition Saturday as the Ivorian's 75th-minute goal rescued a 1-1 draw at Everton in their fourth round clash.
France striker Louis Saha gave Everton the lead in the second half of the contest -- which was a repeat of the 2009 final -- with a close-range header from Leighton Baines' corner.
Chelsea manager Carlo Ancelotti reacted by replacing winger Florent Malouda with Kalou after 70 minutes and his decision paid dividends.
The 25-year-old Kalou finished off a swift counter-attack when he drilled a low shot past Everton goalkeeper Tim Howard from just inside the penalty area to earn a replay for the visitors.
"We had a good attitude and spirit and were able to score and take a draw," former AC Milan boss Ancelotti told the club's official website.
"It was not an easy game because Everton put strong pressure all the time on the pitch, used a lot of long balls, they were very dangerous on set-pieces and scored on one. It was a difficult game."
Premier League leaders Manchester United survived a scare at third division Southampton before they scored a 2-1 win.
Alex Ferguson's team fell behind to Richard Chaplow's firmly hit strike moments before half time as the Saints took a well-deserved lead.
But United responded after the break when Michael Owen headed Gabriel Obertan's drilled cross into the net to restore parity.
The comeback was complete with 76 minutes gone after Javier Hernandez latched on to substitute Ryan Giggs' through ball and calmly converted the chance with a side-footed finish.
It was the Mexican's ninth goal of the season and it ensured the Red Devils reached the last 16 of this competition for the eighth time in nine years.
Veteran French midfielder Robert Pires scored his first goal for Aston Villa as Gerard Houllier's side earned a 3-1 victory over Blackburn Rovers to reach the fifth round.
Pires, 37, found the net with a neat half-volley to restore Villa's lead after Croatia striker Nikola Kalinic had canceled out Ciaran Clark's opener.
England under-21 striker Nathan Delfouneso wrapped up the game for the home team with a header just before half time.
Non-league outfit Crawley Town caused one of the day's biggest shocks as they earned a 1-0 success away to fourth division Torquay United.
Matthew Tubbs' goal after 39 minutes was enough to secure a place in the last 16 for the final non-league club left in the competition.
In an all-Premier League tie, Bolton Wanderers and Wigan Athletic will have to play again after the two north-west rivals could only manage a 0-0 draw.
