For most folks, the tune rolling through their heads Thursday might be called the "Day After Powerball Blues."
But somewhere in Missouri and in Arizona, a few folks might have The O'Jays' "For the Love of Money" on their minds.
You know ... "Money, money, money, money ... money!"
That's because two tickets for the record-breaking Powerball jackpot -- $587.5 million -- were sold in those states.
The winning numbers were 5, 23, 16, 22 and 29, and the Powerball was 6.
We don't yet know who the winners are, but Missouri lottery officials said the winning ticket in that state was sold at a Trex Mart store in Dearborn, about 30 miles north of Kansas City.
Missouri lottery officials will announce their jackpot winner or winners at a news conference Friday morning.
The winning Arizona ticket was sold at the Four Sons Food Store in Fountain Hills, state lottery spokeswoman Karen Bach said. The winner hasn't come forward there, either.
"Unbelievable," said Four Sons manager Bob Chebat. "Everyone comes in here buying tickets, joking they'll take care of you if they win. But chances are so slim that it becomes standard that no one does win. I just don't know what to say. I'm shocked. I hope I was the guy who sold the winning ticket."
Lottery officials previously urged winners to take their time coming forward.
Winners should sign the ticket, put it in a safe place and seek legal and financial advice before redeeming it, Missouri lottery director May Scheve Reardon said.
The winner in that state has 180 days to claim the money.
Unexpected changes can come for Powerball winner
The prize for the lottery -- held in 42 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia -- swelled to the largest in Powerball history after the jackpot rolled over 16 times without a winner.
But it still doesn't match the U.S. record payout of $656 million, set in March by a Mega Millions jackpot. Three winners split that pot.
In August: $337 million Powerball winner plans to keep it real
Whoever comes forward with the winning tickets may want to speak to Donald Lawson. The Michigan man won the $337 million Powerball prize in August and vowed that the new infusion of green would not change him -- or his eating habits.
"I'm a millionaire now, but I'll still go to McDonald's," Lawson said as he stood smiling at the Michigan Lottery headquarters in Lansing.
Why you keep playing the lottery
CNN's Lateef Mungin, Shawn Nottingham and Kyung Lah contributed to this report.
