Argentina star Gonzalo Higuain has made a surprise return to Real Madrid's squad for Saturday's La Liga match against Sporting Gijon, but the Spanish giants fear Cristiano Ronaldo could be ruled out of their next two games.
Ronaldo, who has scored 27 goals in 27 league matches this season, has a hamstring problem which could see him miss Tuesday's European Champions League quarterfinal first leg against Tottenham Hotspur in the Bernabeu.
The 26-year-old has been joined on the sidelines by France striker Karim Benzema and Brazil defender Marcelo and the trio look certain to miss this weekend's match as well as the clash with English Premier League Spurs.
"Regarding Cristiano, Marcelo and Benzema, they will only be available to play against Bilbao [on April 9]. That is what the reports that the medical staff say," coach Jose Mournho told the club's official website.
Higuain, 23, underwent surgery in January for a slipped disc he suffered in November and initially returned to training in February.
"Not even the best forecasts could have predicted that Higuain would be ready to play so quickly," Mourinho added.
"We are very happy for him. His recovery is an important and positive surprise. His rehab was a well-organized process. It's a great surprise because we may have as many as 15 matches left to play and he is an important addition."
The nine-time European champions are currently second in the Spanish La Liga table heading into their contest with Sporting, five points behind arch rivals Barcelona.
Tottenham boss Harry Redknapp also has injury worries, with winger Gareth Bale and central defender William Gallas both doubts for the Madrid clash.
Bale, who has scored four goals in Europe's premier club competition this season, has a hamstring problem, while France international William Gallas is battling an injury to his knee.
When asked whether the duo, who have been ruled out of Saturday's English Premier League clash with Wigan, would feature against Real, Redknapp told Spurs' website: "We'll have to wait and see.
"Gareth's hamstring is still tight and you can never tell with a hamstring injury, until you really push it, you are not sure. William is struggling at the moment."
Tottenham, currently fifth in England's top flight, are battling with Roberto Mancini's Manchester City for fourth position and a place in next season's Champions League.
City, who are four points ahead of Spurs in fourth place, have been hit with their own injury blow, with the news Germany defender Jerome Boateng could be out for the rest of the campaign.
Boateng, who joined City from Hamburg in June 2010, will require an operation on a knee injury sustained while playing in Germany's win over Kazahkstan on Saturday.
