Real Madrid head coach Jose Mourinho claims it was in referee Paradas Romero's "nature" to send him to the stands during Wednesday's 5-1 Copa del Rey win over Real Murcia.
Mourinho was protesting a 37th-minute yellow card given to Mali midfielder Mahamadou Diarra when Romero adjudged him to have overstepped the mark and banished him from the touchline.
The Portuguese boss -- whose team advanced beyond the last-32 stage of Spain's premier cup competition for the first time in three years -- highlighted Romero's past record of handing out yellow cards as the reason behind his dismissal.
The former Inter Milan coach stopped short of openly criticizing the match officials, and admitted he would not able to do a better job than Romero.
The worst referee decisions in football?
"I cannot say he was a bad referee," Mourinho told Los Blancos' official website. "I would make a terrible referee.
"[But] just look at this referee's statistics. It is in his nature. I'm not saying he is good or bad. I am not one to judge him, but I do usually analyze referee statistics.
"This one has officiated about 50 matches in the Spanish league and has shown more than 250 yellow cards, an average of more than six per match. He booked 10 players in his last match."
However, Spanish press reported that Romero claimed Mourinho abused him after being booked for protesting, forcing him to send the coach to the stands.
Should referees be relegated too?
"In the 37th minute, the manager Jose Mario dos Santos Mourinho Felix was given a yellow card for the following reason: raising his arms in the air, complaining about a decision I made," Romero reportedly wrote in his after-match summary.
"Once he was given the yellow card, he faced me and said, 'Go to hell.' "
Real's win was emphatic, as goals from Esteban Granero, Gonzalo Higuain, Cristiano Ronaldo, Karim Benzema and Xabi Alonso ensured they avoided the humiliation of last year when they suffered a 4-1 aggregate loss to third-tier team Alcoron.
Mourinho's men are currently sitting top of the Spanish first division, a point clear of arch-rivals Barcelona after 10 matches.
Meanwhile, the first "Clasico" clash between the two Spanish heavyweights this season will be played on a Monday due to the Catalan elections taking place the day before on November 28.
Barca will host Real with kickoff scheduled for 9 p.m. local time (2000 GMT, 1500 ET).
"This is due to the 13th round coinciding with the elections for the parliament of Catalonia and the security problems that would create," read a statement on Real's website on Thursday.
