How much would you pay for a bloody sock?
A man named Pete Siegal paid $92,613.
Admittedly, it wasn't just any old sock.
It was the sock worn by Curt Schilling during Game 2 of the 2004 World Series. He pitched for the Boston Red Sox against the St. Louis Cardinals on an injured ankle.
"It's a one-of-a-kind item," said Chris Ivy, director of Sports Auctions for Heritage Auctions.
The stained white tube sock was sold at auction Saturday night at the Fletcher-Sinclair Mansion in New York.
"I expected anywhere from $75,000 to many multiples of that. It's the first bloody sock we've sold, and it came in just under what we expected to get for it. I'm happy with the sale," Ivy said.
Although the auctioned item was worn in the World Series, the blood-stained sock that Schilling had worn five days earlier is arguably an even bigger part of Red Sox lore.
That night, the right-hander underwent an impromptu operation so that he could take the mound against Boston's archrival, the New York Yankees, in Game 6 of the American League Championship Series.
A loss would have sent the Red Sox home for the postseason -- without a championship, as had been the case since 1918 -- while a win would put them on the verge of an unprecedented postseason comeback from a 3-0 deficit, assuming they could take Game 7.
They made it thanks largely to Schilling, who was already hobbling after a subpar performance in the series' first game. As blood soaked his white sock, he held the vaunted Yankees lineup to one run and four hits over seven innings. The Red Sox ended up taking their fourth straight game the next day, pummeling New York 10-3, to advance to the World Series.
There, they faced St. Louis. Despite his injuries, Schilling started Game 2 and helped lead the Red Sox to a 6-2 win. They ended up sweeping the Cardinals in four straight games, setting off a wave of euphoria in Red Sox Nation, and finally ending the "Curse of the Bambino."
Siegal, who was born and raised in Brooklyn, New York, said he and his business partners have bought many items over the years and hope to open a museum about the history of baseball.
The bloody sock will be a welcome addition.
"It's a very historic item. We also bought, about 10 years ago, the contract that brought Babe Ruth from the Red Sox to the Yankees. That started the 'Curse of the Bambino,' and Schilling's sock had a lot to do with ending it. It's a great combination and it's an honor to have it. To have something that is involved with both is very historic," Siegal said.
CNN's Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
