The top-two Bundesliga teams suffered embarrassing defeats by lower-league opposition in the German Cup on Wednesday night.
Mainz crashed to just a second loss so far this season, losing 2-1 at second-division Alemannia Aachen ahead of this weekend's showdown with title rivals Borussia Dortmund.
Aachen led 2-0 through Benjamin Auer and Marco Hoger before Hungary striker Adam Szalai reduced the deficit with 22 minutes to play.
Second-placed Dortmund also exited at the second-round stage, losing 4-2 on penalties against Kickers Offenbach after being held goalless in extra-time by the third-division team.
Bundesliga strugglers Stuttgart were also taken to extra-time by a team from the fourth division, before rallying to win 3-1.
Bayer Leverkusen bowed out following a 5-4 penalty shootout defeat away to fellow top-flight team Borussia Monchengladbach after the match ended 1-1.
Eintracht Frankfurt crushed Hamburg 5-2, while fellow Bundesliga side Hoffenheim progressed with a 1-0 win over division two team Ingolstadt.
In Spain, second-placed La Liga team Villarreal were held 1-1 away to third-division side Polideportivo Ejido in the first leg of their Copa del Rey fourth-round tie, while struggling Racing Santander lost 2-0 at division two Cordoba.
Real Madrid held by minnows Murcia
Sevilla won 4-0 away to Real Union, Valencia triumphed 3-0 at Logrones, Levante beat relegated Xerez 3-2, Hercules drew 0-0 at home to Malaga and Mallorca won 3-1 at home to Sporting Gijon in another all-La Liga clash.
Bottom club Zaragoza edged a 1-0 win away to second-divison Real Betis, while Atletico Madrid thrashed division three Universidad Las Palmas 5-0 with two goals from Argentina striker Sergio Aguero.
In England, Arsenal reached the quarterfinals of the League Cup for the eighth season in a row with a 4-0 win at Premier League rivals Newcastle, as England winger Theo Walcott scored twice .
The Premier League's bottom club West Ham also went through with a morale-boosting 3-1 win at home to Stoke City after extra-time, having trailed to Kenwyne Jones' early goal before captain Scott Parker, Manuel da Costa and substitute Victor Obinna replied.
Aston Villa also needed extra-time before defeating division two side Burnley 2-1, with England winger Stewart Downing scoring the winner before teammate Marc Albrighton was sent after Emile Heskey and Clark Carlisle netted late in regulation time.
Serie A leaders Lazio won 3-0 at home to second-division Portogruaro in the third round of the Coppa Italia, while Udinese beat Padova 4-0 and Bologna edged Modena 3-2.
Brescia scraped a 1-0 win over Cittadella, struggling Cagliari beat Piacenza 3-0, Lecce defeated Siena 3-2 and Catania needed extra-time before overcoming Varese 4-3.
Serie B leaders Novara knocked out top-flight Cesena, winning 2-1.
