As Olympic icon Oscar Pistorius faces a murder trial for shooting his girlfriend, his older brother is also charged in the death of a woman.
Carl Pistorius is accused in the 2010 death of a female motorcyclist, Pistorius family attorney Kenny Oldwage said.
Culpable homicide refers to "unlawful negligent killing," South African police say.
Prosecutors say Carl Pistorius was driving recklessly in Vanderbijlpark, South Africa, when he crashed with the motorcyclist in the daytime.
Oldwage disputes allegations that his client was driving recklessly and said the motorcyclist rode into Carl Pistorius' vehicle.
"Carl deeply regrets the accident. Blood tests conducted by the police at the time proved that he had not been under the influence of alcohol, confirming that it was a tragic road accident after the deceased collided with Carl's car," a statement from the Pistorius family said.
The motorcyclist died in a hospital a couple of days after the accident, Oldwage said.
Carl Pistorius was initially scheduled to go on trial Thursday -- during the middle of his brother's four-day bail hearing.
The trial has been rescheduled for the end of March. His case could be over before his brother's murder trial is scheduled to start in June.
Carl Pistorius was a fixture at his younger brother's bail hearing last week, handing Oscar tissues as the 26-year-old sobbed uncontrollably in court.
Oscar Pistorius, the double-amputee sprinter known as the "Blade Runner," is charged with premeditated murder in the death of his girlfriend, model Reeva Steenkamp. Prosecutors say the Olympian killed her after a heated argument in the early morning hours of Valentine's Day.
Pistorius says he thought Steenkamp, 29, was an intruder.
After a four-day, emotionally wrenching bail hearing, the track star was granted bail Friday.
As part of his conditions for release, Oscar Pistorius cannot return to his home, where the shooting happened; must surrender his passport; and can't go near an airport.
It's unknown whether Oscar Pistorius will be in court to support his brother during his trial.
CNN's Karen Smith and Josh Levs contributed to this report.
