Here are the latest key developments in the violence between Gaza and Israel, and the diplomatic efforts to bring peace, including a cease-fire announced earlier Wednesday.
Read CNN's full story on the attacks and the talks here
(4:30 p.m. ET, 11:30 p.m. local) Israel makes arrest in Tel Aviv bus bombing
Israel has made an arrest in Wednesday's bus bombing in Tel Aviv that wounded 24 people, a spokeswoman for the Israel Defense Forces said Thursday.
...
(4:40 a.m. ET, 11:40 a.m. local) IDF says fewer rockets from Gaza; death toll rises
An Israel Defense Forces spokeswoman says three rockets have flown out of Gaza toward Israel since the cease-fire began. Earlier figures of five to 12 rockets mentioned by officials are incorrect. Two of the rockets hit open areas, and one was intercepted by the Iron Dome defense system, she said.
The death toll in Gaza rose to 163 and 1,225 others wounded as residents and rescuers pulled more people from piles of rubble.
...
(9 p.m. ET, 4 a.m. local) The cease-fire is holding
"We assumed it would take a while for the cease-fire to take hold," Israel's ambassador to the United States, Michael Oren, told CNN after initial reports of rockets still being launched from Gaza into Israel. "I understand now that it has taken hold. There hasn't been fire for a while and, of course, we are not firing, so there is a cease-fire."
...
(8:30 p.m. ET, 3:30 a.m. local) The agreement
The agreement calls for Israel to halt all acts of aggression on Gaza, including incursions and the targeting of people, according to Egypt's state news agency EGYNews.
It was the November 14 assassination by Israeli forces of Ahmed al-Jaabari, the head of Hamas' military wing, that ignited the fighting.
It also calls for the Palestinian factions to cease all hostilities from Gaza against Israel, including the firing of rockets and attacks on the border.
Border crossings were to be opened Thursday night, and the movement of people and goods across them was to be eased, it said.
...
(6:15 p.m. ET, 1:15 a.m. local) People in Gaza celebrate cease-fire
Gazans have been taking to the streets, firing their guns into the air in celebration of what they considered to be a victory over Israel's military.
"Their attempts backfired against them," Khaled Meshaal, a Hamas political leader, said of Israel at a news conference Wednesday night. "They wanted to destroy the infrastructure of the resistance of Hamas. They claim they have done so, and they have not. They are bankrupt."
He cited Israel's destruction of buildings and killings that included civilians. "This is their accomplishment," he said. "They have nothing else to show. And our rockets continued to strike them until the last minute."
Besides a cease-fire, the agreement calls for the discussion of a number of issues, including freedom of movement in and out of Gaza and a commitment by Israel not to target Palestinian militants within Gaza.
...
(2:19 p.m. ET, 9:19 p.m. local) Israeli government spokesman Mark Regev on cease-fire agreement
Israeli government spokesman Mark Regev said the agreement calls for "complete and total cessation of all hostile activity initiated in the Gaza Strip."
"For us, that's victory. That's what we wanted," he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer.
Israel will hold Hamas responsible for any attacks from Gaza, whether conducted by that organization or any others, Regev said. He said the agreement reflects that understanding.
Regev also said the deal calls for immediate talks on economic restrictions on Gaza.
"If the border is quiet, that enables us to be more forthcoming," he said. "The arrangements agreed with the Egyptians say we'll start talking from tomorrow about a process to work on those issues."
...
(12:49 p.m. ET, 7:49 p.m. local) U.S. President Barack Obama on cease-fire announcement
President Barack Obama on Wednesday commended Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for following his recommendation to agree to a cease-fire with Hamas that was brokered by Egypt, the White House said.
...
(12:41 p.m. ET, 7:41 p.m. local) Hillary Clinton on cease-fire announcement
The Israeli-Hamas cease-fire announced Wednesday should "improve conditions for the people of Gaza and provide security for the people of Israel," U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said.
She made the remark at the news conference at which Egypt's foreign minister announced the cease-fire would begin at 9 p.m. local time (2 p.m. ET) Wednesday.
...
(12:30 p.m. ET, 7:30 p.m. local) Cease-fire to take effect Wednesday night, Egypt's foreign minister says
A cease-fire between Israel and Hamas will take effect at 9 p.m. local time (2 p.m. ET) Wednesday, Egypt's foreign minister announced in Cairo.
...
(12:15 p.m. ET, 7:15 p.m. local) Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal on the Tel Aviv bus attack
CNN chief international correspondent Christiane Amanpour, in an interview in Cairo, asked Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal whether Hamas was responsible for Wednesday's bombing of a bus in Tel Aviv, Israel.
"Not Hamas, not others, not other people from, not Hamas. No one can announce except those who committed (it), not me," Meshaal said. "The lesson is what matters. What led to this? Who created the circumstances that led to this (operation)? It is (Israeli Prime Minister) Benjamin Netanyahu with his crimes, in killing the kids of Gaza, and the continuity of aggression. He (creates) such ramifications everywhere. This could lead to any kind of reaction as retaliation for what happened in Gaza."
...
(9:25 a.m. ET, 4:25 p.m. local) Israeli President Shimon Peres on chances for a cease-fire
CNN's Wolf Blitzer asked Peres if there would be a cease-fire. "I hope so," Peres replied. "It is not yet done. There are difficulties, in any negotiation there are difficulties, but this time their expectations are over the horizon. But we are waiting and trying. The situation is very strange; both sides won't like a ground operation, neither us or them. A cease-fire is preferred by both sides, but the conditions they start to put (out) are little bit exaggerated."
When asked what Hamas wanted of Israel, he added: "They want Israel to do nothing. We shall not fly over, we shall not guard the border. Many others. The conditions of Israel (are) basically security conditions. Their conditions are political ones, and this is a contradiction."
...
(8:43 a.m. ET, 3:43 p.m. local) State Department on Hillary Clinton talks with Mahmoud Abbas in the West Bank
State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland issued the following statement:
"President Abbas and Secretary Clinton met for half an hour in Ramallah today. President Abbas was joined by Palestinian chief negotiator, Saeb Erakat, and spokesperson Nabil Abu Rudeineh. The secretary was joined by Consul General Michael Ratney, special envoy David Hale and Vice Admiral Harry Harris. The conversation focused on the situation in Gaza and the effort to de-escalate.
"The secretary expressed appreciation for President Abbas' leadership in encouraging the restoration of calm and his role in maintaining security throughout the area, including in the West Bank. She also underscored her heartfelt concern for innocent lives lost both Palestinians and Israelis and for all those who have been wounded or are living in fear and danger.
"The secretary indicated that we were working to support ongoing efforts to defuse the crisis, especially Egyptian-Israeli conversations, and noted that she would be visiting Cairo later in the day.
"She reviewed her recent conversations with Prime Minister (Benjamin) Netanyahu, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and a number of her ministerial counterparts as well as the president's phone calls to the Egyptian and Israeli leadership.
"President Abbas expressed appreciation for U.S. efforts.
"The secretary also reiterated the U.S. position opposing the Palestinian initiative to seek observer state status at the U.N. General Assembly, and our view that the best way to achieve statehood is through direct, bilateral negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians."
...
(7:39 a.m. ET, 2:39 p.m. local) U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton arrives in Cairo, Egypt
Clinton touched down in Cairo shortly after 7 a.m. ET and issued the following statement after a bus bombing in Tel Aviv, Israel.
"The United States strongly condemns this terrorist attack and our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and the people of Israel. As I arrive in Cairo, I am closely monitoring reports from Tel Aviv, and we will stay in close contact with Prime Minister Netanyahu's team. The United States stands ready to provide any assistance that Israel requires. "
...
(7:27 a.m. ET, 2:27 p.m. local) White House statement on the Tel Aviv bus attack
From the White House press secretary:
"The United States condemns today's terrorist attack on a bus in Tel Aviv. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of those injured, and with the people of Israel. These attacks against innocent Israeli civilians are outrageous. The United States will stand with our Israeli allies, and provide whatever assistance is necessary to identify and bring to justice the perpetrators of this attack. The United States reaffirms our unshakeable commitment to Israel's security and our deep friendship and solidarity with the Israeli people."
