In a television interview, the mother of a man charged in the murder of an Auburn University freshman repeatedly says she's sorry about the suffering the victim's family is enduring.
Courtney Larrell Lockhart was arrested Friday in Phenix City, Alabama, about 35 miles from Auburn.
"I never thought Courtney would do this. I never, never thought," Courtney Larrell Lockhart's mother Catherine Williams told CNN affiliate WRBL on Saturday.
"But I'm sorry for that family and I'm sorry. I'm just sorry," she said. "I got nothing else to say. I'm just sorry for the loss of that family."
Police announced Saturday that they had arrested Lockhart, 23, of Smiths, Alabama, in connection with the shooting death of Lauren Burk, 18, of Marietta, Georgia.  Watch the mother cry and apologize »
Lockhart faces charges of capital murder during a kidnapping, capital murder during a robbery and capital murder during an attempted rape, police said.
Also, Lockhart is facing robbery charges in the Phenix City, Alabama, area, said William Clanton of the Phenix City Police Department.
Clanton did not know how many robberies Lockhart was suspected of committing.
Lockhart is being held in the Russell County jail, but is expected to be moved to Lee County soon, where Auburn University is, Clanton said.
Burk was found shot Tuesday night on North College Street, a few miles north of campus. She died later at a hospital. Minutes after police responded to a call reporting an injured person and found Burk, they received a report of a car -- which turned out to be Burk's -- on fire in a campus parking lot.
Authorities believe gasoline or another accelerant was used to ignite Burk's car, Auburn Assistant Police Chief Tommy Dawson said Friday.
Police were investigating whether a gas can found in downtown Auburn was related to the case.
Memorial services for Burk were held Saturday and Sunday at a Marietta church and synagogue. A campus-wide memorial service will be held Monday.
A memorial service was held Sunday in Athens, Georgia, for another slain university student Eve Carson, the Athens Banner Herald reported.
Carson, 22, the student body president for the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, was found shot to death in a suburban neighborhood not far from campus about 5 a.m. Wednesday. Her car was found Thursday, in another neighborhood to the west, about a block or two from where she lived with roommates.
On Saturday, police released two surveillance photographs of a "person of interest" taken by an ATM camera in the Chapel Hill area, Chapel Hill Police Chief Brian Curran said. The person appeared to be using one of Carson's ATM cards and was driving a vehicle that was possibly hers.
Curran called the photographs the "biggest break" in the case, which he said still appears to be random.
Reminders of the popular student president appeared on the jerseys of the university's men's basketball team Saturday night as they took on Duke University's Blue Devils in Durham, North Carolina.
The top-ranked Tar Heels wore jersey patches that read "Eve." Many of Duke's fans donned small light-blue ribbons as a show of support.
There was a moment of silence for Carson before tip-off.
The ribbons and moment of silence say "a heckuva lot about Duke University," UNC Coach Roy Williams told reporters after the game.
The Tar Heels won 76-68. E-mail to a friend
