Jose Mourinho has continued rebuilding his Real Madrid squad, with the Spanish club agreeing to sign Germany World Cup star Mesut Ozil on Tuesday.
The 21-year-old is expected to undergo a medical on Wednesday, missing his German team Werder Bremen's Champions League qualifying clash with Italy's Sampdoria that night.
He will join fellow Germany midfielder Sami Khedira as one of Real's pre-season signings, though the fee has yet to be disclosed. Spanish sports paper Marca reported that it was worth €15 million ($19 million) to Bremen and more than $30 million to the player spread over six years.
"Mesut Ozil lands at Real Madrid after a standout performance at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa," said a statement on Real's website.
Time for 'want-away' players to show some respect?
"The midfielder earned a permanent spot on Germany's senior side by the age of 21 after winning the 2009 Under-21 European Championship. His unique touch, unmatched individual technique, excellent ball control and deadly last pass make him one of the brightest up-and-coming stars in European football."
Ozil made a big impact at this year's World Cup in South Africa in a midfield revamped in the absence of injured captain Michael Ballack, helping the 2006 finalists to finish third.
Born in Gelsenkirchen of Turkish descent, he made his senior debut for local club Schalke in 2006 before moving to Bremen two years after that.
He had been linked with several clubs, including England's Manchester United, with just a year left on his Werder contract.
"When you have such an opportunity like this, then you want to take it. It is any footballer's dream to play for the biggest teams in Europe," Ozil said on Saturday after first learning of Madrid's interest.
The Real squad is in Belgium for the next leg of their pre-season tour, having already beaten Champions League runners-up Bayern Munich 4-2 following victories over L.A. Galaxy and Club America in the United States.
Mourinho has already signed Portugal defender Ricardo Carvalho, Argentina winger Angel Di Maria and Racing Santander midfielder Sergio Canales.
Meanwhile, English club Manchester City have unveiled Italy striker Mario Balotelli following his long-expected move from Inter Milan, and allowed Wales forward Craig Bellamy to join his hometown club Cardiff on a season-long loan in the second division after failing to make Roberto Mancini's 25-man Premier League squad.
The Italian coach said he would also consider letting Shay Given leave if the Republic of Ireland international was unhappy with being made second-choice goalkeeper behind young England player Joe Hart.
Mancini said he was close to signing England midfielder James Milner from Aston Villa, with City's Stephen Ireland to move in the other direction.
"I hope we can close it between today and tomorrow. I think Milner is a good player, an English player -- which is important. I think he can play in different positions," Mancini told the UK Press Association on Tuesday.
Marseille striker Mamadou Niang has completed his move from the French champions to Turkish club Fenerbahce, signing a three-year deal as he joins fellow Senegal international Issiar Dia at the Istanbul side.
Marseille's Burkina Faso international Charles Kabore has signed a new two-year contract until June 2015, having recently received dual French nationality, while Ghana World Cup star Andre Ayew has extended his deal until 2014.
