Editor's note: Follow live coverage of the Super Bowl XLVI from Indianapolis, with CNN World Sport. Just refresh the page to get the latest updates.
02.53 GMT: GIANTS WIN 21-17 AND ARE SUPER BOWL XLVI CHAMPIONS
Tom Brady's final desperate 'Hail Mary' pass cannot be caught and the Giants hold on for a memorable victory.
02.43 GMT: Giants 21-17 Patriots
Almost an unwanted touchdown as Ahmad Bradshaw is allowed to run through by the Patriots, who trail by five, but now have time to make a winning touchdown themselves. It's going right down to the wire with all the pressure on Brady.
02.35 GMT: Manning's 38-yard pass to Mario Manningham is superbly caught and ruled legitimate after a challenge from the Patriots. Sign of desperation perhaps.
02.30 GMT: Patriots cannot make their possession pay and Wes Welker fails to make a routine catch from a Brady pass. Patriots are forced to punt as Giants win back possession and a chance for glory for Eli Manning.
02.15 GMT: Giants drive fizzles out as Manning fails to complete to Mario Manningham and it could prove costly.
Twitter: @McKayCNN: Alright. 15 mins to a new Super Bowl champion and only 2 points separate the Pats and the Giants. I like!
02.00 GMT: End of the third quarter and this is going down to the wire.
01.55 GMT: Giants 15-17 Patriots
It's a two-point ball game now as Tynes lands another field goal, this time from 33 yards, but Patriots will be pleased to have prevented a touchdown as Manning is sacked for the third time.
01.45: GMT: Brady is sacked for the first time in the match, he's human after all and Giants win back possession with good field position.
01.40 GMT: Giants 12-17
Giants hit back as Scottish kicker Lawrence Tynes lands a 38-yard field goal for three points.
Twitter: NFL@nfl Brady has now hit on 14 consecutive completions, setting a Super Bowl record (and passing Joe Montana).
01.28 GMT: Giants 9-17 Patriots
Brady is on fire at the start of the second half and after a 79-yard drive picks out Aaron Hernandez who runs in from seven yards out for the second touchdown for the Patriots. No problem with the extra point.
01.20 GMT: After the glitz and glamor of Madonna it's down to the blood, sweat and possibly tears of the second half as the Giants kick off.
0105 GMT: Madonna duly takes to the stage and begins her set with her 2000 hit 'Music'.
@McKayCNN: My view of Music by Madonna http://pic.twitter.com/Vas42bQn
00.47 GMT: Giants 9-10 Patriots (H/T)
Superb from Brady as he connects with Danny Woodhead after a 96-yard touchdown drive, tied for the longest in Super Bowl history! The extra point is added by Gostkowski to leave the Patriots with a one-point lead at halftime.
Twitter: @McKayCNN: We know one Madonna song coming up at 1/2 time. Fans instructed to turn on tiny flash lights on cue during "Like a prayer". There ya go!
00.40 GMT: Patriots desperately trying to get more points on the board in a likely final drive before halftime. Madonna doubtless warming up her vocal chords backstage. She will apparently perform three 'standards' and one new song. We shall see, but sure the 'Material Girl' will justify her appearance fee.
00.30 GMT: Official confirmation that Travis Beckum, a tight end for the Giants, will play no further part. He has torn his Anterior Cruciate Ligament.
00.20 GMT: It's turning into a tense struggle with defenses largely on top. Perhaps President Obama had it right in a pre-game interview with NBC. "I can't call it," he said. "I can't tell you who's going to win this thing."
00.05 GMT: Giants 9-3 Patriots
First points of the night for the Patriots as Stephen Gostkowski lands a 29-yard field goal. Game on !
00.01 GMT: End of the first quarter with the Patriots trailing 0-9.
Twitter: CNN Anchor Mark Mckay @McKayCNN Super Bowl salsa time! Cruz TD. Giants clicking in opening quarter but Pats are their own worst enemies. Quite
2352 GMT: Giants 9-0 Patriots
It's just got worse for the Patriots as Manning picks out Victor Cruz for the first touchdown of the match with Lawrence Tynes adding the extra point.
Twitter: According to NFL@nfl that's only the sixth safety in Super Bowl history and the first since XLIII
23.41 GMT: Giants 2-0 Patriots
First points of the night and from an unlikely source as Patriots QB Tom Brady throws an incomplete pass from his own endzone and the referee rules a safety ! In soccer terms that's the equivalent of an own goal and not the best of starts for Brady and his teammates. Manning has also made a shaky start having been sacked twice in the first drive by the Giants, so not going according to script.
23.29 GMT: And we are off and the first chance for the Giants and Eli Manning to get their offense going.
2325 GMT: Referee John Parry spins the coin, the Patriots win the toss and choose to kick off
2300 GMT: We're in the final countdown to Super Bowl XLVI between the New England Patriots and the New York Giants. It's one of the most eagerly awaited match-ups in the 46-year-old history of the iconic sporting event and most experts have it to close to call.
Can the famous combination of quarterback Tom Brady and coach Bill Belichick work their magic again to claim a fifth Vince Lombardi Trophy for the Patriots? Or will the Giants rain on their parade as they did the last time the two sides met in the Super Bowl in 2008?
CNN International will guide you through the drama of the next few hours at the Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, providing latest score updates and commentary, on the decisive moments of the super-charged finale to the NFL season.
Please feel free to comment in the section at the foot of the page.
Conditions are certainly perfect for the two teams, it's been a cool but sunny day in Indianapolis, a city best-known for its proud tradition of motor sport and host of the world famous Indy 500.
The locals have had to suffer while the Indianapolis Colts have endured a 2-13 season but they have turned up in their tens of thousands to the fantastic celebrations and free concerts, including the NFL Experience, an interactive maze that has taken over the convention center.
Kick off is scheduled for 23.29 GMT, but before that former American Idol winner Kelly Clarkson will sing the Star-Spangled Banner.
For the uninitiated, the match will consist of four quarters of 15 minutes each with a halftime break when pop icon Madonna will perform.
If the scores are tied in regular play there will be 15 minutes of sudden-death overtime.
