President Barack Obama took an evening away from politicking Sunday to honor top artists -- and crack some jokes.
Obama received the five Kennedy Center honorees at the White House before the annual gala that honored this year Tom Hanks, Sting, Al Green, Lily Tomlin and ballerina Patricia McBride.
Sting got a presidential mention not just for his chart-topping music career, but also for his stage name.
"Now, not everybody can pull off a name like Sting, but this guy can.  His wife, Trudie, calls him Sting. Apparently his kids call him Sting," Obama said to laughs at the White House reception. "'POTUS' is a pretty good nickname -- but let's face it, it's not as cool as Sting.  I kind of wish I was called Sting."
But, Obama conceded, "I'm stuck with 'POTUS,'" which stands for President of the United States.
Sting, however, later said on the red carpet he was "not so sure" his name is cooler than the President's moniker.
Comedy Central show host Stephen Colbert, who emceed the Kennedy Center event, made sure he spotlighted the high profile guests at last night's events, especially whom he called the "most powerful and influential person in the world": First lady Michelle Obama.
"Madam First Lady, lovely to see you, good evening. There she is, looking radiant, next to the President, which I assume means she has no future plans to run for office," Colbert quipped. "There are a lot of Democrats who don't have that courage."
Democratic candidates locked in tight races in the 2014 midterms largely distanced themselves from  Obama, and he stayed away from the campaign trail in the tightest Senate races.
Colbert also noted the nonpartisan nature of the soirée, which he credited to Tom Hanks.
"Tonight, Washington puts the arts above politics, because no matter what party you belong to, everyone wants a selfie with Tom Hanks," Colbert joked.
Earlier in the evening Obama also honored Hanks and his cult roles in movies like "Big" -- which Obama said he watched Saturday night -- "Apollo 13" and "Forrest Gump," in which Hanks' character gives another U.S. President, Lyndon B. Johnson, a look at his wounded behind in the movie.
"I'm glad he got that last one out of his system before this evening," Obama said.
The entire Kennedy Center reception will air on CBS on Dec. 30.
But before then, Colbert's interview with Obama will air Monday night on "The Colbert Report."
