Juventus moved to within a two points of a third straight Serie A title after coming from behind to beat lowly Sassuolo 3-1 Monday.
The victory re-opened an eight-point cushion over chasing Roma with three rounds of the Scudetto still to be played.
Roma have kept doggedly in pursuit of their rivals, with a fine win over Milan Friday.
But this latest victory for Juve will allow Antonio Conte's men to place one hand on the trophy.
They were given an early fright at the Stadio Citta del Tricolore when the home side took a shock lead as Simone Zaza scored with a low shot past Gianluigi Buffon.
Juventus took until the 34th minute to equalize as Carlos Tevez scored from outside the area with a fine shot after an assist by Claudio Marchisio.
Andrea Pirlo put Marchisio clear to add the go-ahead goal in the 57th minute and Stephan Lichsteiner crossed for Fernando Llorente's third to seal the three points on 76 minutes.
Conte's men are next in action Thursday at their own Juventus Stadium in Turin, looking to overcome a 2-1 deficit from the away leg of their Europa League semifinal with Benfica.
He still fielded a strong team against Sassuolo, who were missing a number of players through injury and suspension and are involved in a relegation scrap in the lower reaches of Serie A.
Meanwhile, Arsenal cemented a likely fourth place in the English Premier League and Champions League qualification for next season with a 3-0 home win over slumping Newcastle.
Visiting manager Alan Pardew was allowed pitch side after his seven-game touchline ban but it made little difference to his under performing side.
After an even opening, Arsenal took the lead through Laurent Koscielny after slack marking by the Newcastle defense following a free kick.
German star Mesut Ozil added a second from close range just before halftime.
Ozil set up Olivier Giroud for a clinching midway through the second half, his 15th league goal of the season and condemning Newcastle to a sixth straight defeat.
Arsenal have moved four points clear of fifth-placed Everton with both having just two games left of the season in the EPL.
