Manchester City manager Roberto Mancini has ruled out the possibility of Carlos Tevez departing on loan, hours after AC Milan announced plans to discuss a possible move for the Argentina striker.
Milan want an initial loan deal with a view to a post-season transfer, but Mancini warned the Italian champions ahead of Thursday's planned meeting that the 27-year-old will only leave the English Premier League leaders if a permanent deal can be agreed.
"I hope we can find a good solution for us and Carlos,'' Mancini, who guided Milan's archrivals Inter to three successive Serie A titles, told reporters on Tuesday. "We want Carlos to come back and play football, and the best solution for us is to sell him.
"Milan know we can't put him on loan but if they want to buy Carlos, for us it is OK."
Milan vice-president Adriano Galliani said a deal is unlikely to be wrapped up before the seven-time European champions leave for a mid-season training camp in Dubai on December 29.
"Thursday we have a meeting with Manchester City about Tevez, but will probably not be the decisive one to conclude the negotiations," Galliani told Milan's official website.
"It will be almost impossible to take him to Dubai with the rest of the team. With Manchester City we have a long way to go, at the moment."
Mancini said City could not continue allowing to let highly-paid players go out on loan, which has happened with strikers such as Emmanuel Adebayor, Roque Santa Cruz and -- until he joined Liverpool on a free transfer in August -- Craig Bellamy.
"When Manchester City buy a player, they have to pay a lot of money. But when we want to sell them, they have to go on loan. It is not good for the club and it is not correct for the other players," he said.
"Manchester City paid Carlos a lot of money three years ago. It is correct that if one club -- it could be Milan, Juventus, Paris Saint-Germain -- they pay Carlos for his value. This is correct."
Silva strike leaves Manchester City clear at the top
Tevez was fined by City for refusing to warm up when he was an unused substitute in a European Champions League defeat to Bayern Munich in September.
The former Manchester United forward has been consistently linked with a move away from the Etihad Stadium after handing in a transfer request in December 2010.
Tevez looked to be heading back to former club Corinthians -- where he spent two years between 2004 and 2006 -- but the Brazilian club pulled out of the deal in July.
The Buenos Aires native has not played for City since September's domestic cup victory over second division Birmingham City and has made just three league appearances for the team he captained last season.
Meanwhile, former France striker David Trezeguet is on the verge of sealing a switch to Argentine team River Plate.
River's official website confirmed the 34-year-old has passed a medical and will officially join the Buenos Aires club on January 4.
The former Juventus and Monaco forward has been playing for Baniyas in the United Arab Emirates since leaving Spanish club Hercules in August.
Trezeguet has enjoyed a glittering career, winning the World Cup with France in 1998 before scoring the winning goal for his country in the final of Euro 2000 against Italy.
The 33-time national champions have endured a torrid time in recent seasons, culminating in their relegation from Argentina's top flight in June.
