Britain's Prince Charles and his wife, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, arrived Wednesday in Madrid on an official three-day visit to Spain, just under a month before his son, Prince William, is to marry Kate Middleton in London, a British official said.
Charles, the Prince of Wales, will meet with members of Spain's royal family, some of whom will attend the April 29 wedding at Westminster Abbey, a spokeswoman for Spain's royal household said.
The visit also will focus on bilateral commercial relations, cooperation on climate change, opportunities for youth and cultural links, said a statement from Clarence House in London, the prince's office.
Hosts for the visit will be Spain's Crown Prince Felipe and his wife, Princess Letizia, who will receive the visiting British royalty at the Pardo Palace, on the western outskirts of Madrid, for an opening ceremony with color guard.
Pardo Palace is the former residence of the late dictator Francisco Franco and has been used, since Spain's return to democracy, as lodging for visiting foreign dignitaries. It's where Prince Charles and Camilla will stay for their two nights in Madrid.
Later on Wednesday, Prince Charles will meet the president of Madrid's regional government and business leaders, members of the British community in Spain and attend a dinner at Spain's Royal Palace in central Madrid hosted by Prince Felipe.
On Thursday, Prince Charles and Camilla will attend a lunch hosted by Spain's King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia at their residence, the Zarzuela Palace in Madrid.
Prince Charles is expected to make brief speeches only twice during the trip, during a toast at the Royal Palace dinner on Wednesday and at Madrid city hall on Thursday morning, said British Embassy officials in Madrid.
Britain and Spain have $53 billion dollars in bilateral trade, with the trade balance in Spain's favor, according to Clarence House, which said Prince Charles will engage in "commercial diplomacy, including trade and investment promotion."
Up to a million British citizens live in Spain full or part-time and millions more visit annually, British officials said.
Prince Charles and Camilla began the week with an official visit to Portugal. After two days in Madrid, they will go to Seville on Friday for more official events, and then have a private weekend in southern Spain, before their official visit to Morocco on Monday, Clarence House and British officials in Madrid said.
Prince Charles has made two previous official visits to Portugal, 10 to Spain --- most recently for the 2004 wedding of Prince Felipe to Letizia in Madrid --- and two to Morocco. It is the Duchess of Cornwall's first official visit to Portugal, Spain and Morocco, British officials said.
