Lewis Hamilton crashed out of qualifying for the German Grand Prix on Saturday as Mercedes teammate Nico Rosberg took pole for Sunday's race at Hockenheim.
The German sealed his fifth pole of the season with a time of one minute 16.540 seconds edging out Williams' drivers Valtteri Bottas and Felipe Massa who finished second and third respectively.
Earlier there was concern for Hamilton as he crashed at around 250 kph (155 mph) during the first three qualifying session (Q1).
The 29-year-old Briton slammed sideways into the barriers at the hairpin leading into the stadium section of the circuit.
A shaken Hamilton eventually emerged from his car before being taken to the medical center for an examination which revealed no serious injuries.
"I hit something," Hamilton told the team over the radio. "I hit... hit the brakes - the brakes failed."
Mercedes later confirmed that Hamilton's car had suffered a failure of the right front brake disc.
Hamilton was lying in 16th place when he crashed out but will start Sunday's race in 15th after Sauber's Esteban Gutierrez, who qualified in 14th place, was hit with a penalty.
Elsewhere, McLaren's Kevin Magnussen qualified in fourth with Daniel Ricciardo one place behind with Red Bull teammate Sebastian Vettel down in sixth.
Ferrari's Fernando Alonso is one place further back with Daniil Kvyat steering his Toro Rosso to eighth on the grid.
Force India's Nico Hulkenberg and Sergio Perez make up the top ten.
Rosberg was happy with his day's work but would have preferred his teammate have been pushing him hard in Q3.
"It's great, home race here and to be on pole is fantastic," Rosberg told reporters.
"Of course I would have preferred if it was an open fight with Lewis. A little bit less happy as a result because Lewis didn't have a shot at it in the end.
"But all in all, still a fantastic day up to now, but no points for today. (The) important (part) is just tomorrow, still a long way to go but it's still a good start."
Victory on Sunday would cap an extraordinary 10 days for the 29-year-old German.
On July 11, Rosberg wed his childhood sweetheart Vivian Sibold. Two days later Germany sealed the World Cup beating Argentina 1-0 in the final and earlier this week Rosberg extended his contract with the Mercedes team.
Rosberg currently leads the drivers' championship by four points from Hamilton with Red Bull's Ricciardo 67 points off the pace in third.
Read more: Schumi's wife praises fans
Read more: Wolff makes her mark at German GP
