(CNN Student News) -- October 4, 2013
As a partial government shutdown stretches on, CNN Student News examines another potential battle looming in Washington over the U.S. debt ceiling. We also explain a possible schedule shift for the 2022 World Cup, and we report on a jellyfish invasion at a nuclear power plant in Sweden. Plus, watch how a disabled student shocked his classmates by taking a stand for school spirit.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Can media coverage of a partial government shutdown influence viewers' opinions of the federal government? If so, how? If not, why not?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What U.S. president delivered the "Gettysburg Address"?
2. What country is scheduled to host soccer's World Cup in 2022?
3. What is the name of the storm that is currently threatening the U.S. Gulf Coast?
4. What United Nations group unanimously approved a resolution concerning chemical weapons in Syria?
5. In what part of the body would you find the gastrocnemius muscle: arm, leg, or neck?
6. What empire, which began in 27 B.C., once covered parts of three continents?
7. What technology company is now the most valuable brand in the world?
8. What language is the origin of the English word "alligator"?
9. What kind of animal recently caused a shutdown in a Swedish nuclear power plant?
10. What U.S. state has the highest number of residents under age 18?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Gulf of Mexico
Asia
Qatar
Europe
Sweden
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
