(CNN Student News) -- April 25, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Yemen • Misrata, Libya • St. Louis, Missouri
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
BEN TINKER, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Hey there, everyone. Happy Monday, and thanks for tuning in to CNN Student News. I'm Ben Tinker, filling in today for Carl Azuz, who's got the day off. As we kick off the last week of April, we're going to get things started today in the Middle East.
First Up: Unrest in Yemen
TINKER: There's a deal being discussed in the nation of Yemen that would remove that country's president from power. That's something protesters have been pushing for weeks. They've been marching through the streets, demonstrating. And in several cases, those demonstrations have turned violent, with fighting between protesters and security forces.
The protests are centered around this man: President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who's been in power for more than 30 years. This deal, which was put together by a group of countries in that region, says that President Saleh has to step down within 30 days. It also gives him and anyone who served in his government complete immunity from prosecution.
Thousands of Yemeni people are angry at the deal, especially because it offers immunity to Saleh. They also want him to step down immediately. But as of Sunday afternoon, President Saleh had not signed the deal, and government representatives insist he won't unless the opposition groups agree to it.
Libya's Revolution Explainer
TINKER: From Yemen, we move west to the North African country of Libya and the city of Misrata. The battle to control that city has gone on now for seven weeks. Hundreds of people have been killed in the fighting between Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi's forces and the rebels who want him out of power. Over the weekend, Libyan officials said they stopped their operations in Misrata, but a rebel spokesman calls that a flat-out lie.
CNN Senior International Correspondent Nic Robertson, who's been covering the conflict in Libya, explains how we got to this point and what some of the potential outcomes might be.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Libya's had Moammar Gadhafi leading the country for almost 42 years, and there's been a push to see democratic change there. Although Libya is on Tunisia's borders, the revolution in Tunisia really came to its initial conclusion with the ouster of President Ben Ali, who took exile in Saudi Arabia. That really sparked the revolution that then took place in Egypt, on the other side of Libya. So really, it was these two events, on both sides of Libya, that then gave the confidence to the opposition.
People want democracy. And people want the chance, now, to choose their own political leaders; to have political parties; in some cases, to have a voice in their own futures. It went from being a sort of an "unarmed civilian against government" situation that we saw in Tunisia and Egypt, into more of an armed rebel revolt against the government, which is where it is today. You have the rebels in Benghazi to the east. You have Gadhafi in his seat of power and with the support of a lot of the principle tribes of the country in Tripoli. And you have a siege around the town of Misrata, where rebels are surrounded by government forces and are being shelled.
It's reaching a stalemate of sorts, but behind the scenes, there are political back channel talks that are going on. The foreign minister has talked about the possibility of an interim solution, being an interim government that would last for six months before elections. But at the same time, Britain, France and Italy are talking about sending advisers for the rebels, which potentially will stiffen positions, stiffen the Libyan government's position, and make it harder, potentially, to reach any kind of a deal.
Two potential futures: one is that there is a cease-fire, troops on the ground to monitor a cease-fire, an interim government and, ultimately, elections. There's been a lot of blood-letting so far; it's going to be hard to walk away from this situation right now without further bloodshed. The other scenario is that both sides dig in deeper, refuse to negotiate, and there becomes a much wider-spread civil war in the country.
(END VIDEO)
I.D. Me
STAN CASE, CNN STUDENT NEWS: See if you can I.D. Me. I'm a U.S. city that's located on the Mississippi River. I was named after a French king. I'm known as the Gateway to the West, and I'm home to the Gateway Arch. I'm St. Louis, Missouri, and I was first established in 1764.
Tornado Damage
TINKER: A tornado ripped across parts of St. Louis Friday night, and this is what was left behind. The twister and fierce winds were estimated at anywhere between 110 to 200 miles per hour. This thing damaged 750 homes, left tens of thousands of people without power. But incredibly -- thankfully -- there were no reports of any deaths or serious injuries. A local minister said "buildings can be replaced, but lives cannot."
The tornado also hit the airport in St. Louis. No planes were able to fly out on Saturday, but this plane you're looking at was one of the first to take off on Sunday. Our Dan Simon gives us an inside look at the incredible impact this storm had on the airport.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
DAN SIMON, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Airport security cameras show what it was like inside the moment the tornado struck. Right now, everything appears fine. Then the lights go out, debris starts swirling, TSA officers run for cover. Another angle in front of a food stand. Watch as this guy on a cell phone looks behind him and sees things are not normal. Seconds later, it appears this whole concourse is swept up by the powerful wind.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Get out! Go back inside!
SIMON: The aftermath: a scene of broken windows and an airport that has to be quickly shut down. One arriving passenger says he saw the wind actually force a plane to slide 20 feet from the gate.
ROSS TAYLOR, PASSENGER: By the time we got to the terminal, lights were out, there was glass everywhere, it was just open. There was blood everywhere from where people had been cut.
SIMON: The tornado ripped through nine separate communities, destroying dozens of homes. But amid all the devastation, mostly just minor injuries. Authorities credit that to people heeding the warnings.
WES BROWN, NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE: And that was not only because we had a 34-minute lead time from the National Weather Service, but because our media partners carried that warning immediately to the public, and thirdly, that the public did what we have told them to do.
SIMON: Still, with so many dislodged from their homes, the Red Cross opened several shelters. Back at the airport, crews began the tedious process of boarding up windows. Any glass that had a crack was taken down. Airport officials say most operations will resume when the power is restored.
While the airline traffic may resume, the cosmetic damage you see here may take months to repair. Dan Simon, CNN, St. Louis.
(END VIDEO)
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: It's time for the Shoutout! Easter marks the end of what religious observance? If you think you know it, then shout it out! Is it: A) Vespers, B) Pentecost, C) Lent or D) Advent? You've got three seconds -- GO! Easter marks the end of the 40-day period of Lent. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Easter Celebrations
TINKER: In the Christian faith, those 40 days of Lent are a time for prayer and penance and a time to prepare for Easter. That holiday, of course, was yesterday, as many of the world's two billion Christians celebrated the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Services and ceremonies took place around the world, including at the Vatican, led by Pope Benedict XVI. During his Easter blessing, the Pope urged an end to the violence in Libya and other Middle Eastern countries. And the Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia held its annual Easter Sunrise Service ceremony yesterday. It began with a prelude from the U.S. Navy Band, and worshippers also heard from the U.S. Army chief of chaplains.
Nominate a CNN Hero
TINKER: CNN Heroes are everyday people who are changing the world. But how can you nominate someone to be a CNN Hero? Well, it all starts on our home page. Just scroll on down to the "How Do I" box and click on "nominate a CNN Hero." That'll get you to all the information you need. Nominations are open right now. Just head to CNNStudentNews.com to learn all about it.
Before We Go
TINKER: Before we go, we want you to check out a truly magical sport. Although this version is a little more grounded in reality. It's quidditch! And if that name doesn't cause a little bit of a quizzical question for you, you must not be a fan of Harry Potter. The books and movies feature the sport, where contestants fly around on broomsticks. This college team just has to hold the broomsticks between their legs. Quidditch is quickly -- and not so quietly -- becoming popular on a lot of college campuses.
Goodbye
TINKER: I guess you could say the high-flying sport is really taking off. And I'd imagine that a win in that battle of the broomsticks would be a sweep victory, indeed. Time for us to fly. For CNN Student News, I'm Ben Tinker.
