As a Alabama native, I packed my bags and moved to New York City in pursuit of a modeling career at 18 years old. Even though I will always be a small-town girl at heart, I always dreamed of all the adventures of living in a big city.
After signing with the Wilhelmina Models agency, it wasn't long before I landed my first Essence cover. Soon after that I was on a plane to Paris to do the couture shows. Macy's commercials, OiI of Olay ads and Maybelline campaigns were soon to follow.
I knew I had arrived when Iman asked me to shoot a spread for Vanity Fair alongside supermodels Naomi Campbell, Tyra Banks and Beverly Johnson. This was the first time that I was photographed by famous photographer Annie Leibovitz.
My career has taken me all over the world from Australia to Anguilla as a top model, and the education that I received is priceless. I live by the words "follow your dreams," and "be fearless." This attitude has landed me right where I am today.
I am 43, and I reside in Atlanta with my husband Peter Thomas and my 11-year-old daughter Noelle Robinson.
I am a cast member on Bravo's hit reality TV show "The Real Housewives of Atlanta." Outside of the instant celebrity that came with the show, the platform has been amazing. I have so many great opportunities coming my way, and I want to use my celebrity to change the world.
I recently opened The Bailey Agency School of Fashion in Atlanta. The school offers classes on modeling, photography, makeup, hair styling, fashion styling and fashion designing.
Sharing all that I have learned from being in the fashion industry for the past 25 years is one of the ways that I want to inspire young people to follow their dreams and give back to the community. There is a lack of education available at affordable prices for young, aspiring, talented people who are interested in a career in fashion.
Before I set on my journey to New York to become a fashion model, I was very shy and lacked self-confidence. Then, I never would have believed that I would be the independent, successful, confident woman that I am today. I believe that this industry encourages high self-esteem and confidence which is invaluable in any career choice.
