Reigning world champion Sebastian Vettel started his 2011 Formula One defense in emphatic style on Sunday, leading the season-opening Australian Grand Prix in Melbourne from start to finish.
McLaren's 2008 world champion Lewis Hamilton did well to finish second after damaging his car on the first corner while Lotus Renault's Russian driver Vitaly Petrov achieved his first podium finish.
The 23-year-old German notched up his 11th win in his 63rd Formula 1 race.
Fernando Alonso finished fourth for Ferrari, with Mark Webber in his Red Bull in fifth place. Jenson Button came sixth in his McLaren.
Red Bull team boss Christian Horner said after the race his team did not use its KERS power-boost system because of technical issues, underlining the scale of Vettel's victory.
Following his triumph, Vettel said: "It was a good race. In the end things calmed down, Lewis didn't push, but it was not an easy race.
"The start was crucial, I was on the clean side, but didn't know if it was enough until we got through the first corner.
"With Lewis dropping off later in the race, there was no pressure, so I was able to control it."
Assessing the season ahead, Vettel added: "It's a long season, so we have to keep on doing what we are doing now, enjoying, but working hard."
Hamilton was satisfied with his runner-up spot, saying: "We can take this and be very proud of ourselves. A week or two ago we weren't expecting to be in the top five, so to come to second is a great achievement."
Describing the achievement of driving his damaged car to the finish, Hamilton added: "The plank and part of the floor are massively damaged. I was losing quite a lot of downforce, so I just tried to nurse the car home and get the points."
Petrov was proud of his third-place finish, admitting: "To be honest I can't believe I'm sitting with these guys. We didn't know where we were coming into the season, but in practice and qualifying we were good.
"In the race the team did everything perfectly. We can be very proud of what we have achieved."
