(CNN)For thousands of years, man has looked to the stars in search of answers. Who are we? Why are we here? Are we alone?
The ethereal nature of the cosmos has brought inspiration to great thinkers throughout history -- Aristotle, Albert Einstein, Carl Sagan to name just a few. Through its profound beauty, the night sky has become a symbol of the possible.
Yet, too often, we get so caught up in the daily grind of work, family and friends that we fail to take a moment and appreciate the vast expanse overhead.
But not all of us.
Across the globe tonight, many will pack a duffel bag. In it: a camera, tripod, flashlights, telescope, perhaps a blanket and maybe some snacks before setting off in search of the perfect location for a late-night photo shoot.
Mars Curiosity: Take a look under the hood
Among them could be Slovenia-based stargazing enthusiast and photographer, Iztok Medja. "The stars remind me that we are small and not so important as we think," he says. "But it's not the gear that makes the photo. You have to just love this stuff. And go outside and practice and learn. One day you will get something."
In Kathleen, Georgia, iReporter Greg Hogan tucks his kids in bed before grabbing his camera and stepping out into his front yard. A fairly new stargazer, he's only been snapping shots of space for the last six months but he's already besotted.
"I bought a telescope for $25 at a yard sale and the first time I saw Saturn's rings, I was completely hooked," he says. "There's just so much out there that people don't realize that you can see without the equipment being expensive, if you just slow down a minute and take a peek."
WATCH: Zero gravity training with NASA
The skies above us are a fascinating place with endless possibilities and iReporters across the globe are sharing their stories of snapping shooting stars, planets, galaxies, meteor showers and more. Explore the gallery above to view some of the best iReport astrophotography and find out the story behind these dazzling images.
Do you have a passion for astrophotography? Share your photos with iReport and you could be featured on CNN.com.
WATCH: Driving Curiosity on the Red Planet
