Controversy in figure skating? What took so long? And Canada and the United States play to a familiar result on the hockey rink, while a Canadian faced long odds in the ski cross final four.
Cue the conspiracists
Figure skating, like beauty, is in the eyes of the beholder.
And to some the decision of the judges at Thursday's women's free program was downright ugly.
As was the subsequent reaction on social media.
It didn't help that one of the judges had in the past been suspended for a year for trying to fix an event at the Winter Olympics 16 years ago (apparently they don't have a Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis in figure skating).
Or that another is married to the head of the Russian figure skating federation, which is cheering for the first Russian woman to win a gold medal in individual competition after she was awarded the highest score of her life.
It was too much for defending Olympic champion Yuna Kim to overcome.
Not everyone thinks the judging was crooked. Even though gold medalist Adelina Sotnikova had one notable mistake, she did have the more technical program. And that's where she won; her technical score was 75.54; Kim's was 69.69.
Chris Chase of USA Today wrote: "It's debatable, but not a robbery. Sotnikova skated well enough to win gold. She had a carefully constructed program with seven triples, five of which were in a combo. Kim had six and three, respectively. Thus, Sotnikova was going in with a higher total and made more margin for error, which she took advantage of with a minor hop after one exchange."
Sotnikova said she knew she had skated well.
"When I had performed all the elements I knew I would be on the podium but not which medal. When I saw I had won on the technical elements I didn't believe my eyes," she said.
There might be more of an argument that Sotnikova's short program score of 74.64 was a real gift.
We'd like more of that
Here's an idea for the women's hockey tournament. Just make it Canada vs. the United States in a best four out of seven games format.
Especially if the games will be as well-played and exciting and heart-pounding and heartbreaking and magnificent and frustrating and enthralling and agonizing and stirring and mind-blowing as the one played Thursday.
Depending on whose side you were on, you'll always remember this one as either a great display of Canadian spirit or the one the United States let get away. And really, the 3-2 Canada victory in overtime was both.
Canada didn't score for the first 56:34 of the gold medal game then found net three times in 11-plus minutes. Of the women's four Olympic gold medals in the sport, this is the one that will be most cherished.
