Editor's note: Spoiler alert! If you haven't watched "Psych's" series finale, stop reading now.
(EW.com) -- After "Psych's" series finale on Wednesday, star James Roday spoke to Entertainment Weekly about the "big get" and that pitch-perfect ending.
The hour revolved around Shawn (Roday) trying to find a way to break the news to best friend Gus (Dulé Hill) that he was leaving him and Santa Barbara to go to San Francisco to be with Juliet (Maggie Lawson).
In the end, he did it by recording a message on DVD. If you teared up when it first became clear that Gus was watching a disc, you're not alone. Another great moment was Lassiter (Timothy Omundson) watching his goodbye DVD and deciding not to listen to Shawn admit what Lassie's always suspected (that Shawn's not actually psychic).
You may even have gotten a little misty when Shawn hugged his father Henry (Corbin Bernsen), and finally called him for help on a case -- also acceptable.
Before we get to the ending, let's talk about those three casting Easter Eggs: Deon Richmond played Gus' boss. "There's been a runner throughout 'Psych' that maybe Gus played Bud on 'The Cosby Show' as a child, and Deon Richmond is the real Bud," Roday explains.
'Psych': James Roday's prized pop culture possession cannot be beat
Billy Zane has been referenced on "Psych" more times than Roday can count. "We've been chasing him for a while, so to have him as the final villain ever on 'Psych' felt really, really right."
And then the "ultimate gift to our fans," he says, was finally seeing Det. Dobson on-screen -- and having him be played by Val Kilmer, another actor who's been regularly referenced on the show.
"We knew the longer the show lasted, the bigger the payoff it would be to finally be able to show who this person was. Val was our first choice, and as you learn in television, sometimes you don't even get your 10th choice," Roday says. "I am eternally grateful to Val for doing this, and I think he will soon discover just how much of an impact it's going to have. But it was awesome. And trivia, it was actually the last thing that we ever shot on 'Psych,' because we did it in Los Angeles not in Vancouver."
The landing of Kilmer is a story in itself. Hill was hanging out with a friend who runs the LA Shakespeare Festival.
"They do these giant celebrity-laden readings every year, and he said, 'You know, Val's done those for us in the past. Val's actually a really good friend of mine. I wonder if he has any idea how many times you guys talk about him on your show.' They were like having brunch, and he said, 'Let's just call him and ask him.' And the next thing Dulé knew, he was on the phone with Val, who of course had never seen our show and had no idea what anybody was talking about. But Dulé, being the proactive guy that he is, just put him right on the spot right there on the phone. What's Val gonna say? 'Yeah, of course, it sounds fun.' But then we actually had to put in the legwork," Roday says.
'Psych': Dulé Hill sings for our pop culture personality test
In the end, Gus quit his job and followed Shawn to San Francisco to live a life of adventure. He made it just in time to witness Shawn's proposal to Juliet -- of course she agreed to marry them, mostly Shawn -- and jump in the car to chase after a thief who stole the heirloom engagement ring.
"The proposal scene was sort of hanging over our heads forever. There were so many different versions of how Shawn would propose, or IF Shawn should propose. We didn't want anybody to hate us, but we also needed it to be 'Psych' through and through. We didn't want to cop out and have a proposal just because that's what you're supposed to do. So I feel like we figured out a way to do it that's just a little off and," he says, laughing, "still results in the wackiness that you had come to expect from us. We knew we were never gonna have a wedding. That decision was made a while ago, like we're not gonna go there. But I do think it was important to let everybody know that hey, these two are going to be together, you don't have to worry about that."
These three, James.
"The three of them are going to be together."
See the original story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
