(CNN)  -- Novak Djokovic wasted little time in breezing through to the second round of the French Open with a straight sets victory over Dutchman Thiemo De Bakker in Paris Monday.
The victory extends Djokovic's remarkable winning streak since the start of the year to 38, four short of the record held by John McEnroe from 1984.
Djokovic's overall winning run, taking in the end of last season, extends to 40 and if he claims the French Open title he will tie Guillermo Villas for the all-time record of 46.
The Serbian took just one hour 32 minutes to claim a 6-2 6-1 6-3 victory on the Philipe Chartrier court at Roland Garros, breaking his young opponent at will with another commanding display.
Djokovic will face either French wild card Benoit Paire or Romania's Victor Hanescu for a place in the last 32.
"It's my favorite grand slam, even though I haven't won it yet," Djokovic told gathered reporters.
"I've been playing really well on clay. I've won three tournaments (on clay) in the last few weeks, so I'm trying to build on that confidence," he added.
Djokovic won the opening grand slam of the season in Australia and has claimed six other titles, including four Masters events.
Roger Federer joined Djokovic in the second round after he dispatched Spaniard Feliciano Lopez with a 6-3 6-4 7-6 victory in the next match on the main court.
A single break of service in each of the first two sets put the Swiss maestro in command and he closed out the deciding tiebreaker 7-3 to progress.
Federer and Djokovic are on collision course for a semifinal meeting, but the danger in their portion of the draw may well lie with Argentina's Juan Martin Del Potro.
The former U.S Open champion won a tight battle with Croat Ivo Karkovic to go through 6-7 6-3 7-5 6-4 after three and a half hours and he could meet Djokovic in the third round.
But sixth seed Tomas Berdych was a first day casualty, crashing out to 31-year-old Frenchman Stephane Robert.
Berdych was broken in the 15th game of the fifth and deciding set as Robert pulled off a stunning 3-6 3-6 6-2 6-2 9-7 victory.
Rafael Nadal, under pressure from Djokovic for the No.1 ranking, opens his bid for a sixth French Open title Tuesday against big-serving American John Isner.
