Russia risks economic isolation from the West with its intervention into the Crimean peninsular, but trade relationships complicate matters. And, as CNN reveals, it's not just trade in which Russian interests are strongly represented -- it's in some of the most lavish and expensive assets around the world. Below are a selection.
Sports
Professional sports team ownership is perhaps the ultimate status symbol for Russia's wealthiest.
Mikhail Prokhorov, who made his billions in the precious metals sector, owns the NBA Brooklyn Nets while the Marussia Formula One team is now owned by Moscow-based company.
Oligarchs can also be found backing some of the world's biggest football clubs. Uzbeki-born Russian business magnate Alisher Usmanov is one of the major shareholders in England's Arsenal FC, oligarch Roman Abramovich controls Chelsea and Dmitry Rybolovlev is behind the Monaco FC.
Property
The wealthiest Russians have long been investing into luxurious properties around the world. Rybolovlev's daughter made headlines as the buyer of Manhattan's most expensive apartment, while Roustam Tariko, billionaire owner of Russian Standard Bank and Russian Standard Vodka, owns one of the most expensive homes in Miami Beach -- a $25.5 million estate on Star Island.
Space
A big chunk of the International Space Station belongs to Russia, and is called the Russian Orbital Segment. Since the American space shuttle program was retired, NASA astronauts cannot get to and from the ISS without their Russian counterparts, who now operate the only space shuttles.
Tech
Russian millionaires own stakes in some of the most successful tech companies, inculding DST's stakes in Facebook and Twitter. Anti-virus company Kaspersky Lab, co-founded by Eugene Kaspersky and Natalia Kaspersky, is considered to be one of the world's most innovative companies and operates in almost 200 countries.
Art
When billionaire art collector Alexander Ivanov opened his Faberge Museum in German Baden-Baden, it was the first Russian privately owned museum outside Russia. An Arab sheikh reportedly offered Ivanov $2 billion for his jewelery collection, but it was declined. The collection includes impressionist paintings, old masters, vintage cars and even dinosaur fossils.
Read more: Why the U.S. and Europe are not quite in step on sanctions
Read more: Five myths about the Ukraine crisis
