(CNN)  -- Formula One rookie Pastor Maldonado is confident he will have a successful debut season driving for Williams.
"The feeling in the team and with my engineers is good," the Venezuelan told the official F1 website on Friday.
"I know it will be a really great season with them. If everything goes well, I don't see why we can't score points."
The 26-year-old GP2 champion will line up on a F1 grid for the first time at the opening grand prix of the season in Melbourne on March 27.
And despite finishing down in 12th out of the 14 drivers participating in pre-season testing in Barcelona on Friday, Maldonado insists he is prepared for the challenges ahead.
"I am feeling better and better within the team. We will see what we can do at the first race but I feel ready," he said
Maldonado will make also make history this season, as he becomes the first Venezuelan to take part in the F1 championship.
"I am very happy for my country as they are pushing very hard for me and that is something special," he said.
"It is going to be an exciting moment for me. I have been racing for many years and I have waited many years to be in Formula One."
Maldonado will line up alongside veteran Brazilian racer Rubens Barrichello at British-based F1 outfit Williams, who finished sixth in the drivers' championship last year.
Barrichello was the fifth fastest driver in Friday's penultimate testing session, while seven-time world champion Michael Schumacher clocked one minute 21.268 seconds to set the quickest time for Mercedes.
Another former champion, Fernando Alonso, was second quickest for Ferrari, with Schumacher's teammate Nico Rosberg completing the top three times.
Reigning champion Sebastian Vettel was eighth fastest in his Red Bull, while 2009 winner Jenson Button had a frustrating day and could only manage the 13th best time.
CNN-sponsored Team Lotus were not involved in the session but they did confirm the appointments of Luiz Razia as third driver and Davide Valsecchi and Ricardo Teixeira as test drivers.
Alongside their commitments in the GP2 series, Razia and Valsecchi will take part in Friday practice sessions this season.
Meanwhile, Lotus Renault driver Robert Kubica is set to undergo a further operation on his elbow, the hospital treating him said on Friday.
Since crashing at a rally in February, the Pole has already gone under the knife three times. German driver Nick Heidfeld will replace Kubica over the upcoming season.
