Detectives are "tightening up" their case against Justin Bieber in his alleged egg attack on a neighbor, an investigator said Tuesday.
The neighbor accused Bieber, 19, of tossing eggs over a fence and onto the mansion next door on January 9, causing an estimated $20,000 in damage.
A dozen Los Angeles County Sheriff's deputies raided Bieber's $6.5 million home in the exclusive Oaks community in Calabasas, California, two weeks ago, taking the security video system as evidence.
A prosecutor reviewed the security video Monday and asked detectives to do more investigation before a decision is made about charging the pop star with felony vandalism, according to Lt. David Thompson.
Could Justin Bieber be deported?
Detectives are "tightening up the case" this week and will likely meet again with prosecutors in the Los Angeles County District Attorney's office next week, Thompson said.  The district attorney will then decide if a charge will be filed against Bieber.
Bieber already faces criminal charges in Miami stemming from an early morning traffic stop last week.
Although Breathalyzer tests suggest Bieber was not too drunk to legally drive when he was pulled over by Miami Beach police early Thursday, it could be two or three weeks before tests are back from the lab that should give a more accurate blood-alcohol reading and could tell if he was high on pot.
Bieber blew .011 and .014 in two Breathalyzer tests given to him at the police station, according to a source with knowledge of the results. Florida's legal limit for drivers under the drinking age of 21 is .02. The police report said that Bieber failed a field sobriety test given to him at the police station. He admitted to drinking, using marijuana and taking prescription pills, police said.
The Miami prosecutor said no date has been set yet for Bieber to return to court on the DUI, resisting arrest and expired license charges.
We've seen this bad behavior before
Although Bieber was not charged with speeding, the arresting officer said it was his reason for stopping Bieber and testing his sobriety.
The head of the exotic car rental company that owns the yellow Lamborghini Bieber was driving told CNN on Saturday that the GPS tracking system in the high-performance car indicated that Bieber never exceeded 55 mph in the 15 minutes before the stop.
The Breathalyzer tests and the GPS information could help Bieber lawyer Roy Black in his defense of the singer.
Bieber fled Miami late Friday, boarding a private jet for a flight to Panama City, Panama. Paparazzi photos showed Bieber strolling along a beach on the Pacific Ocean on Saturday, kicking a soccer ball while others kite surfed above the waves.
Other photos showed his manager, Scooter Braun, and mentor Usher Raymond with Bieber at the Panama resort. His representatives have been silent about the criminal charges, declining to comment to CNN.
Bieber has a 'frat house' amidst millionaire mansions, detective says
