(CNN Student News) -- April 24, 2014
President Obama heads overseas on a week-long, four-nation trip. Today on CNN Student News, find out where he's going and some of the challenges he'll be facing. Also included: a historic canonization of two popes, the birthday of America's 2nd oldest professional sports stadium, and an explanation of how one grocery store is literally raising the bar.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might news coverage of a world leader's trip differ between media in his or her own country and media in the host countries?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. national sovereignty
2. canonization
3. Wrigley Field
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What four countries are scheduled stops for President Obama's trip to Asia? According to the video, what kinds of concerns do some of these countries have regarding China? How did the president respond to the question of disputed islands between Japan and China?
2. What is canonization? What two popes are about to be canonized on the same day? Why is this historically significant? According to the report: What are some possible reasons why the current pope will canonize these two former popes on the same day? How might many Catholics respond to this event?
3. What team plays its home games at Wrigley Field? What milestone birthday is the park celebrating this year? What are some of the moments of joy and heartbreak that fans have experienced at Wrigley Field? How is history present almost everywhere at the park? Who are some of the players and personalities that have been associated with Wrigley Field?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is meant by the term "national sovereignty"? Why do you think that this is an important principle for governments? How is sovereignty factored into some recent news stories? What tensions surrounding the issue of sovereignty exist in each case?
2. Why do you think that presidents often travel to other countries? What might world leaders discuss on these trips? Do you think that these trips are effective? If so, why? If not, why not?
3. How might a sports venue contribute to a community's history and culture? How might a sports venue be an important backdrop for one's personal history? Have you ever visited a sports arena or park that held special meaning for you? If so, why is that place a part of your personal story?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
