Former world No. 1 Roger Federer had a simple message for those advocates of revamping tennis by allowing on-court coaches -- he hopes he will have retired if it ever happens.
On-court discussion with coaches is currently banned at ATP Tour events, but female players are allowed to call for a coach under certain circumstances.
Federer warned against rules changes in tennis following an effortless 7-5 6-1 quarterfinal victory over South Africa's Kevin Anderson at the Indian Wells Masters -- a win that will see the Swiss star return to the top five of the world rankings.
"If it does happen, it's hopefully after I'm done playing," the 17-time grand slam champion told reporters after the match.
"I really don't think it's necessary. I don't think it's fair, maybe, because not everybody can afford a coach ...it's just not right."
Federer's comments came after a coaching call appeared to not have quite the required effect in one of the day's two women's quarterfinals.
Italian Flavia Pennetta was one set up against American starlet Sloane Stephens, and leading 5-4 in the second set, when she called for her coach.
The Italian proceeded to lose the following three games, and the set, before rallying to take the match 6-4 5-7 6-4.
The rules, introduced in 2009, allow for discussion at one changeover each set, and in between sets.
Federer -- once also a vocal opponent of the Hawkeye ball-tracking review system -- defended the sport as a one-on-one battleground.
"It's cool to figure it out yourself," added the 32-year-old.
"You can look over to your coach for comfort and support, but other than that, I think tennis should be one of those unique sports where you don't get coaching."
In little over an hour under the floodlights, Federer completed his 10th successive victory following his win at the Dubai Open earlier this month.
Arriving at the tournament ranked No. 8, Federer will re-enter the world's top five next week, a position he occupied for more than a decade, before dropping out in August 2013.
Federer has not dropped a set this tournament and is looking for his fifth Indian Wells title as he heads into a semifinal clash with Alexandr Dolgopolov, who secured a 6-3 6-4 win over Canada's Milos Raonic.
Ukrainian Dolgopolov knocked out world No. 1 Rafael Nadal in the third round and he was in bullish mood ahead of his first semifinal at an ATP World Tour Masters 1000 event.
"I played good for three weeks," said the world No. 31.
"I'm confident enough to come out and play good tennis. Then, who knows? I beat a lot of good players around here, so I wouldn't see why not win more matches."
In the women's draw, Pennetta will meet top-seed Li Na in the semifinals after China's world No.2 triumphed in a competitive match against Slovakian Dominika Cibulkova.
Na lost her opening service game, and appeared shaky, but eventually rallied to record a 6-3 4-6 6-3 victory in two hours and 36 minutes.
Read. Djokovic survives Cilic scare
