Joran van der Sloot is meeting with investigators Thursday in the Netherlands in response to the recently released videotape in the Natalee Holloway case, his U.S.-based attorney said.
Joran van der Sloot awaits transfer from the Netherlands to Aruba in November. He later was released.
The exact location of that meeting was not  disclosed, but van der Sloot's attorney, Joe Tacopina, said his client has "agreed to answer any questions."
In the video that aired Sunday on Dutch television, van der Sloot, a suspect in the 2005 disappearance of Holloway, told a man he was with the Alabama teen on an Aruban beach when she apparently died and that a friend of his with a boat disposed of Holloway's body.
Van der Sloot later said the statements were lies, and on Monday, Tacopina said the video contains "no admission of a crime."
The lawyer said facts in the case contradict two assertions van der Sloot made in the video, including that the boat-owner friend mentioned wasn't in Aruba in May 2005.  Watch how video has brought new interest in case »
Meanwhile, prosecutors are still awaiting a decision from a three-judge appellate panel on the nearby Caribbean island of Curacao as to whether van der Sloot can be arrested in reaction to the video.
The chief prosecutor in Aruba, Hans Mos, was denied an initial attempt to arrest van der Sloot by the investigating judge last Sunday.
The judge determined that numerous pretrial detentions of van der Sloot in the past have created a "high bar" that current circumstances do not meet.
The prosecutor appealed the judge's decision on Tuesday, and the appellate panel will have eight days to respond.
Holloway disappeared while visiting Aruba with about 100 classmates celebrating their graduation from Mountain Brook High School in suburban Birmingham, Alabama, and was last seen leaving a nightclub with van der Sloot and brothers Deepak and Satish Kalpoe.
Mos dropped charges against the three men in December, saying he couldn't be sure of a conviction.  E-mail to a friend
CNN Tracy Sabo contributed to this report.
