The night before Hollywood gathers to honor its best Sunday, Razzie voters sifted through what they dubbed the cinematic rubble and (dis)honored "The Last Airbender" as the worst movie of 2010.
The M. Night Shyamalan action-flick, which was panned by critics upon its release last year, won (or should that be 'lost'?) for Worst Director, Worst Picture, Worst Screenplay, Worst Supporting Actor and a new category -- Worst Eye-gouging Misuse of 3-D.
The other movie that took home multiple gold spray-painted statuettes Saturday night was "Sex and the City 2" for Worst Screen Ensemble and Worst Actress -- presented jointly to the four leading ladies: Sarah Jessica Parker, Kim Cattrall, Cynthia Nixon and Kristen Davis.
The Razzies -- or the Golden Raspberry Awards -- are decided by 637 voters in the United States and 17 countries, according to its website. It began in 1980 as "a logical antidote to Tinsel Town's annual glut of self-congratulatory awards," it says.
Actors and actresses who are nominated rarely attend the ceremony, though Sandra Bullock attended last year to pick up her award for her performance in the box office bomb "All About Steve." The next night, she took home the Best Actress honor at the Academy Awards for her role in "The Blind Side."
Held this year at Hollywood's Barnsdall Gallery Theatre, here is a list of the 2010 "winners":
Worst Picture: "The Last Airbender"
Worst Actor: Ashton Kutcher for both "Killers" and "Valentine's Day."
Worst Actress: Sarah Jessica Parker, Kim Cattrall, Cynthia Nixon and Kristen Davis for "Sex and the City 2"
Worst Supporting Actor: Jackson Rathbone for "The Last Airbender" and "Twilight Saga: Eclipse" (the other most-nominated title of the year)
Worst Supporting Actress: Jessica Alba for "The Killer Inside Me," "Little Fockers," "Machete" and "Valentine's Day"
Worst Eye-gouging Misuse of 3-D: "The Last Airbender"
Worst Screen Couple or Ensemble: The cast of "Sex and the City 2"
Worst Director: M. Night Shyamalan
Worst Screenplay: "The Last Airbender"
Worst Prequel, Remake, Rip-Off or Sequel: "Sex and the City 2"
