Charl Schwartzel kickstarted the defense of his Joburg Open title with a superb 10-under-par-61 in a weather-affected second round on Friday.
The 26-year-old, seeking his sixth European Tour title, fired a flawless 10-birdie effort to claim a tie for the lead with fellow South African Garth Mulroy and England's Jamie Elson at the halfway stage.
He moved up 39 places, having opened with a 68, as three hours were lost due to a thunderstorm.
Schwartzel played on the Royal Johannesburg and Kensington club's West Course, while Mulroy and Elson carded 64s on the more testing East Course.
The weekend rounds will be played at the East Course once the second round is finally completed on Saturday morning.
"It really fell into place and I hit some great tee shots and iron shots, and I used just about every opportunity I had on the greens," Schwartzel, who has having problems with his swing before the tournament started, told the European Tour website.
The world No. 32 is the highest-ranked player in the co-sanctioned Sunshine Tour event.
By comparison, Elson is 493rd in the standings, having failed to retain his European Tour card after making the halfway cut in 13 of the 26 events he played.
He fired five successive birdies from the fifth hole as he moved up from his overnight position of sixth, as did Mulroy.
Their 36-hole total of 129 was a shot ahead of the South African trio of James Kingston, Thomas Aiken (66) and joint first-round leader Tyrone Mordt (68).
The 45-year-old Kingston almost matched Schwartzel's score but bogeyed his final hole on the West Course to sign for a 62.
The second event of the U.S. PGA Tour season has also been affected by weather, with Thursday's opening round of the Sony Open in Hawaii washed out.
The tournament finally began on Friday morning, with American golfer Ryan Palmer seeking to become the fourth player to defend his title at Waialae.
Joseph Bramlett, the first African-American golfer to get through qualifying school since 1985, is one of 27 rookies making PGA Tour debuts.
