Indian police are on the lookout for three Iranians they suspect of involvement in last month's bombing of an Israeli Embassy car in New Delhi, a senior investigator said Thursday.
The investigator, who spoke to CNN on the condition of anonymity, identified the suspects as Houshan Afshar, Syed Ali Mehdi Sadr and Mohammad Reza Abolghasemi.
The Iranian Embassy spokesman, Hassan Rahimi Majd, did not respond to CNN's calls for a comment.
Syed Mohammad Kazmi, an Indian freelance journalist working for an Iranian news outlet, was arrested last week in connection with the February 13 attack, which left several people wounded.
In a separate incident on February 13, another device was found on an Israeli Embassy car in Tbilisi, Georgia, and safely detonated.
A day later, a series of bombs disguised as radios detonated in Bangkok, Thailand.
The Bangkok blasts did not kill anyone, and their intended targets were not clear, although authorities have said they were intended for Israeli diplomats. The devices used explosive materials that are not available in Thailand and were likely smuggled in, police said.
The first bomb went off in a rental house in Bangkok believed to have been leased to foreigners, according to Thai authorities. After the blast, two of the men left the scene, while a third detonated two more bombs -- one when a taxi driver refused to give him a ride and another when he tried to throw a bomb at police officers as they closed in on him.
The last bomb exploded near the man, blowing off his legs below the knee, authorities said.
Thai police released a photo of a radio set packed with explosives.
The devices included C-4 class plastic explosives, steel balls to increase destructive power, and round magnets. Police said the bombs had a five-second delay to allow the bomber to escape.
The Thai National Security Council has drawn a tentative link between the bombs in Bangkok and those in India and Georgia, saying the materials used in the devices were similar.
Kazmi, the freelance journalist, was held on charges of plotting the New Delhi attack. Authorities did not say for which Iranian media organization he works.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has blamed Tehran for the attacks. But Iran has denied the accusation, saying that "Israeli agents are often the perpetrators of such terrorist acts."
Three other Iranians are in custody.
Allegations that Iran was involved in the attacks "are fabricated and false and are prepared by the U.S. and the Zionist regimes," the official Iranian Islamic Republic News Agency, quoting a spokesman for the Iranian Foreign Ministry, said last month.
