Tina Weirather is one to watch at the Sochi Olympics.
Weirather won a maiden World Cup giant slalom in Val d'Isere on Sunday and also extended her lead in the overall standings.
She outclassed the field in the French resort, too, beating her closest rival by 0.73 seconds following a commanding first run.
A good showing in Russia in February would be especially sweet for the 24-year-old from Liechtenstein -- whose parents were World Cup racers -- since she missed the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver with a knee injury.
"It feels awesome for me to get a first win in the giant slalom," Weirather, fourth in Saturday's downhill and a Super-G winner last week in Switzerland, told reporters.
Weirather's mom, Hanni Wenzel, captured two gold medals at the 1980 Olympics and claimed 33 World Cup victories but never triumphed in Val d'Isere.
And Weirather joked: "I didn't know there was a piste in this world where my mum hadn't won. It's good we've now got it in the family."
Switzerland's Lara Gut was the distant second-place finisher, followed by Sweden's Maria Pietilae-Holmner.
Reigning slalom champion Mikaela Shiffrin of the U.S. finished eighth and hasn't been on the podium since early December. But she said she was "very happy" with her performance.
"I was really tired coming from the U.S. to here and I had to re-think how I was doing things, making sure I was getting my recoveries," the 18-year-old told reporters.
"Before this race I actually got some rest and I felt a lot better today, which just means that I have to ski faster. So it's good and bad, but I'm very happy with a top-10."
Giant slalom world champion Tessa Worley of France missed the race and is out of the Olympics after injuring her knee last week.
Four-time overall champion Lindsey Vonn didn't compete, either. She didn't finish the downhill Saturday and said her right knee was still bothering her.
Back-to-back wins for Hirscher
In Alta Badia, Italy, Marcel Hirscher tamed one of the toughest giant slalom courses in the world and said it was a confidence booster to beat American Ted Ligety.
Hirscher made it back-to-back giant slalom victories, with France's Alexis Pinturault 0.35 seconds behind and Ligety a further 0.23 seconds adrift.
"If only you knew how bad my skiing and my feeling were yesterday," Hirscher told reporters. "I doubt anyone would ever believe I could win today. Somehow I still showed some really good skiing in the end, and I couldn't be happier.
"It was really, really important for me to win when Ted is competitive. I have done everything I possibly could to get closer to Ted and it's tough to get faster ad faster, but it was worth it."
Ligety still had reason to celebrate, claiming his 33rd giant slalom podium to tie Austria's Benny Raich for third on the all-time list. He thus rebounded after missing a gate and not completing the giant slalom in Val d'Isere last week.
That ended his four-race winning streak in the discipline.
"I think I could have pushed a bit more, especially in the first run, but it's okay," Ligety told reporters. "It's how it goes."
Hirscher increased his lead in the giant slalom standings to 60 points over Ligety and pulled to within 100 points of Norway's Aksel Lund Svindal in the overall standings.
Lund Svindal was 13th Sunday.
