(CNN Student News) -- May 12, 2014
After a near miss involving a remote-controlled plane and a passenger plane, the FAA is warning Americans about the dangers of drones. We'll have a report on that today, and we'll take you to India for a look at how young people could shape the political future of the world's largest democracy. We'll also show you how a store-bought bouquet of flowers likely traveled over land and sea.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Check here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might it be important for news media to cover both the upsides and downsides of a new technology, like drones?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. drone
2. federal republic
3. globalization
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What are drones? What happened recently involving a drone and a passenger plane near Tallahassee, Florida? What did the Federal Aviation Administration and U.S. Airways say about this incident? How many drones does the FAA estimate there will be in U.S. skies in the years ahead? How is it responding to this growth?
2. What type of government does India have? What is the median age of people in India? What are some issues that are important to India's young voters? According to the report, how is the country's government addressing some of these concerns? How are young people and politicians utilizing technology to shape India's political future?
3. Who was the first overall pick in this year's NFL draft? How did he respond to the news? What happened after the Cleveland Browns selected Johnny Manziel? What is historic about the St. Louis Rams' selection of Michael Sam? How might Sam's performance at the NFL combine have factored in to the draft?
Discussion Questions:
1. How many uses can you think of for drones? What might be the upsides and downsides to these uses? Do you think civilian drone use should be restricted? If so, how? If not, why not? What do you think can be done to ensure safety for airplane operators as drone use increases?
2. How might the issues that concern young voters differ from those that concern older voters? What factors might influence voter turnout for each of these groups? What kinds of political messages have you noticed? What might be the pros and cons of using social media, TV, outdoor signs or websites for political ads? What forms of media do you think are the most effective? Why?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
