The 20th Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards were full of fun and glowing moments. Here are some of the best from the show:
1. Rita Moreno sings!
The famed actress -- one of a handful of people to have won what's called the "EGOT" (Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, Tony) -- accepted the Life Achievement Award at the SAG Awards with all aspects of her forceful personality. She started with a curse, joked with presenter (and old "Electric Company" friend) Morgan Freeman and concluded with a touching rendition of "This Is All I Ask." Now 82, and more than 50 years removed from her "West Side Story" Oscar, she promised that she's "early in the third act of my life."
Relive all the action with our live blog
2. Bryan Cranston sings!
Well, not much. But following Moreno, the "Breaking Bad" actor -- who won for lead actor in a TV drama -- launched into an impromptu rendition of "I Won a SAG Award." Then he turned modest, noting with some surprise how impressed he was when Emma Thompson came up to him. "I lost it," he said. "I've had so many crappy jobs in my life ... and the only thing that got me through was dreaming, one day, I could actually make a living as an actor."
SAG Awards winners list
3. Lupita Nyong'o's acceptance.
Nyong'o, who won a supporting actress award for her performance in "12 Years a Slave," was positively giddy. "I'm ... " she giggled at one point, and had to take a breath and start the sentence again. She thanked Solomon Northup, who wrote the slave narrative on which the film was based, and director Steve McQueen, "for taking a flashlight and shining it underneath the floorboards of this nation and reminding us what it is we stand on." She said when she told her father she'd gotten in a movie with Brad Pitt, he responded that he didn't "know him personally, but I'm glad you got a job." She was glad, too.
2014 Oscar nominations announced
4. Sofia Vergara's assets.
The "Modern Family" star was directed to accept because "America loves her and her boobs." The Colombian-born actress said the award meant so much partly because she can barely speak English. As fellow cast members chuckled behind her, she thanked the show's creators and writers, the crew, the network and, of course, "my boobs." "Thank you so much, SAG, we're going to party now!" she concluded.
5. Cuba Gooding's closing.
Gooding wasn't supposed to close the show -- that was going to be done by presenter Ben Affleck -- but as the credits started rolling, Gooding ran up in a Kanye West-style moment, pushed Affleck aside, and said, "Happy MLK! Happy MLK weekend!" He'll have Monday's holiday to enjoy all the Vines being made of his moment.
