(The Frisky) -- Over the weekend, while dining with George Clooney in Italy, Elisabetta Canalis waved her hand in the air, showing off a bauble on her ring finger. Fellow diners, and naturally the paparazzi, thought the item on her finger was an engagement ring. Which made everyone assume that George had popped the question. But George's rep says that is not the case-and that it was a napkin ring Elisabetta had put on her finger as a joke. Hilarious?
So was this a joke or is Clooney's camp trying to cover for him? It's hard to say, but several other celebrities have claimed engagement rumors were sparked by misunderstandings. And let's just say that a few of them walked down the aisle in secret shortly thereafter.
The Frisky: Oops! 11 celebs with super-short marriages
A "swell" proposal Back in March, Miranda Kerr was spotted with some bling on her ring finger. But she swore she and Orlando weren't engaged. "No, we're not engaged. You can't always believe everything you read," she said to the press. "We were in Cannes at the film festival and it was so hot that my fingers were swelling. I was wearing it on that finger because that's the only one it would fit on. It was totally an innocent thing." They got hitched in secret four months later. Just saying.
The Frisky: 5 celeb siblings with really weird careers
A token from Tyra's past Last summer, rumors spread that Tyra Banks was wearing a diamond on her ring finger, and that she was engaged to her long-time beau, John Utendahl. But her spokesperson said that wasn't the case. "Tyra is not engaged-it's her high school ring and she wears it almost every day." The two have yet to tie the knot, so maybe the ring really does say "Class of 1993."
The Frisky: Angelina Jolie and 9 other stars who played Marilyn Monroe
"Vaughniston" denied, denied, denied In 2006, everyone was yapping that Vince Vaughn had proposed to Jennifer Aniston on a tropical vacation. Jen herself squashed the rumors. "I'm not engaged and I don't have a ring and I haven't been proposed to. Normally we don't even acknowledge these things because they're endless, at this point. The thing that got me was that I was getting phone calls from Greece! My Aunt Mary in Greece is getting accused of lying! ... Okay, so you're on a romantic location. You've got the beach, you've got the sunset, but no, no, you're going to wait for an airplane ride?" She has a point. This one obviously never panned out.
ScarJo spotted scouting dresses In February 2008, Scarlett Johansson was spotted stopping by Monique Lhuiller's bridal shop in L.A. with her sister and mom. Which naturally sparked rumors that she was planning a wedding with Ryan Reynolds. Her rep was quick to deny the story, saying, "A family member is getting married, not [Scarlett]. She is not engaged." Less than a year later, she and Ryan married in a secret ceremony in Canada.
Katy Perry and 7 other celebs who have crashed prom
A rocker's promise Last month, Bret Michaels' on-again, off-again girlfriend was spotted wearing a ring. Bret went out of his way to explain that they aren't rushing to the altar. "No. We are not engaged yet. It's a work in progress," he said. "What happened is she has a beautiful promise ring. A promise ring, a friendship ring with benefits. So, it's-that's what we call it." I believe him just because I can hear the fear of commitment in his voice.
Model's ring is from a "friend" Bar Rafaeli was caught wearing an engagement ring a few months back. She said, "No, there wasn't [a proposal]. Let me explain: these rings, which are beautiful and made by a friend of mine, won't fit any other finger except this one." Or, uh, you could always wear the rings on your right hand? I bet we hear about her and Leonardo DiCaprio's wedding soon enough.
TM & © 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
