Charlie Sheen threatened to kill his estranged wife over the weekend, according to a declaration made in a restraining order against the actor.
"I will cut your head off, put it in a box and send it to your mom," Brooke Mueller claims that Sheen told her Sunday night.
The revelations were in a court document that resulted in a court order that removed Charlie Sheen's twin boys from his home.
In an interview with NBC's "Today Show," Sheen denied that he threatened her. The quote against him was fabricated, he said, calling the allegation "colorful."
Mueller alleges Sheen was abusive to her and filed for a temporary restraining order and a custody order.
"I am in great fear that he will find me and attack me and I am in great fear for the children's safety while in his care," Mueller wrote in her declaration.
She added, I am very concerned that (Sheen) is currently insane."
Sheen's representatives had no response Wednesday to questions about Mueller's claims.
Mueller's family members told CNN that Mueller went with an off-duty sheriff's deputy and a nanny to get the 2-year-old boys. They said Sheen's attorney spoke with Mueller's attorney before Sheen handed over the children.
But Sheen said he plans legal action to regain joint custody.
"You're in my heart. Bob, Max, it's your dada," he said to his sons on CNN affiliate KTLA. "I have never lied to you, and this is another example of that. I will see you soon. You're in my heart and I love you."
Sheen said authorities arrived at his home Tuesday night. He said he remained calm and videotaped the entire episode.
Mueller's family members told CNN the sons were with Brooke Mueller, her mother and the children's nanny.
"I think she is latching onto some of this recent press," Sheen said of his most recent troubles.
CBS halted production of the sitcom "Two and a Half Men," the show Sheen was starring in, after Sheen's rant on a radio show last week.
Sheen denied any anti-Semitic intent in the comments he made about his show's co-creator, Chuck Lorre, whose real name, Sheen said, was Chaim Levine.
"I've never had that in my past," he said. "You can look as deep and as far as you want."
But Abraham H. Foxman, the national director of the Anti-Defamation League, said in a statement last week, "By invoking television producer Chuck Lorre's Jewish name in the context of an angry tirade against him, Charlie Sheen left the impression that another reason for his dislike of Mr. Lorre is his Jewishness. This fact has no relevance to Mr. Sheen's complaint or disagreement, and his words are at best bizarre, and at worst, borderline anti-Semitism."
Sheen has reportedly demanded an apology from the Anti-Defamation League for Foxman's comments.
Warner Bros. Television said Tuesday it will pay "Two and a Half Men's" crew for the four episodes initially set to begin production this week. Warner Bros. spokesman Paul McGuire confirmed the payments will be made.
Warner Bros. Television is owned by Time Warner Inc., the parent company of CNN.
According to TMZ, the payments will amount to about $2 million for the 200 core crew members.
On Monday, Sheen threatened during various interviews to sue CBS for halting production of the show. He also told NBC he wanted $3 million per episode instead of the $2 million he was previously making, but later backed off that assertion, telling CNN's Piers Morgan that his only hard-and-fast demand was that he and the crew get paid for another eight weeks of work.
He started a Twitter account Monday that had gained nearly 870,000 followers by Wednesday afternoon.
"My sons' are fine," he said on Twitter. "My path is now clear ... Defeat is not an option ..!"
Sheen said he is determined to keep a public eye on what happens with his sitcom crew.
"I wanted to get everybody's attention and throw the eyes of the world on this, and clearly my plan is working," he told KTLA. "I'm going to keep shaking the trees until I get the answers I need."
CBS previously placed the sitcom on "production hiatus" after the actor began rehab treatments, and had planned to resume taping on four more episodes this week. It's not clear if "Two and Half Men" will return for a ninth season.
"Everything is as it I stated at the beginning -- I am clean, focused and ready to get back to work," Sheen said.
