(EW.com) -- The wait for Glee fans is finally over!
The Fox musical comedy returns Tuesday night with a brand-new episode titled Frenemies, where Santana auditions and snags the role of Rachel's understudy in Funny Girl, causing a feud resulting in Rachel moving out. Back in Lima, Tina and Artie battle to be the class valedictorian. Last month, Fox confirmed the show would be moving permanently to New York City for the remainder of the current season and for season 6, which will be the series' last. EW talked to the cast on the Glee set while celebrating their special two-part 100th episode airing March 18 and March 25, when several past members of the New Directions come back to McKinley for a week to celebrate what the now-disbanded (!) glee club did for them. Read on to find out exactly when we will be saying goodbye to Lima, plus some teases about upcoming performances. Can you say foam party?
Bye-bye, Lima!
So when will the show say goodbye to Ohio for good? The 100th episode is divided into two parts, and Lea Michele told EW that by the end of that second episode, it'll be the Big Apple from then on. Some are calling episode 101 the Lima season finale, as it will also feature the graduation of the current seniors before some of them make the move east.
New to New York
Rachel, Santana, and Kurt will be joined in the city that never sleeps by Artie (going to film school), Sam (to model), and Blaine (to get married?). Michele also told us that Amber Riley's Mercedes will be popping up in a couple of episodes too. But what about Jane Lynch and Sue Sylvester? Lynch said she hasn't been written into any of the New York scripts yet but is not officially done with the show by any means.
Fox confirms 'Glee' moving setting exclusively to NYC
"I guess we have to get back into our characters"
Darren Criss wanted to make it clear that just because the show's setting is moving to New York, that doesn't necessarily mean the entire cast is. Joking that many people have asked if the show's move meant he had to move permanently too, Criss said, "I don't know if you understand how TV works. We don't actually shoot in Lima, Ohio." Of course a lot of the show will be filmed in New York, but the majority of production is likely to remain in Los Angeles, for now. But the vibe of the group seems different. Michele noted that at one point while filming, the cast was talking to each other and so in the moment catching up, that they didn't realize that they had actually begun to tape the scene and had called action. Whoops. Michele isn't sure if any of what they were actually talking about got into the episode but was quick to note at the time, "I guess we have to get back into our characters."
No more school stories
The show is going to take on more adult-oriented stories in New York, dealing with real post-high school life issues. "We are gonna take some time just in NY. See where that takes us," executive producer Brad Falchuk said. "We're really excited about adult stories out of high school when nobody gives a hoot about you. How does that feel to suddenly be nobody from being the biggest hero?"
Klaine forever after?
"When you move in with somebody in any relationship, it's going to be a challenge. I think they are going to face some challenges together and see if they can get through them or not," Criss teased about the post-proposal life of Blaine and Kurt in New York together. "There are some cool, very adult themes that are exciting to explore. Fans that have gotten older while watching the show can relate."
EW's 'Glee' coverage
The foam party you wish you were invited to
Though details are still wrapped up, Falchuk teased that guest stars Kristin Chenoweth and Gwyneth Paltrow, both reprising their roles from earlier seasons of the show, appear in some amazing musical numbers together, including one centered around Mr. Schuester (Matthew Morrison) and lots of foam. Luckily, everyone got to join in on the fun too. "Let's just say, we party. It's a party like all the time on Glee. You might want to quote me exactly how I said that," Criss playfully said. Criss joined the show after both blond bombshells had already made their guest appearances, so he didn't get to work with them. But now? "I was closer than I ever thought I would get to Gwyneth Paltrow in my lifetime, so I'll take it!"
Plus, here is the list of fan-favorite songs that will be in the 100th episode:
1. Keep Holding On* featuring Mark Salling (Puck)
2. Valerie* featuring Naya Rivera (Santana) and Heather Morris (Brittany)
3. Defying Gravity* featuring Lea Michele (Rachel), Chris Colfer (Kurt) and Amber Riley (Mercedes)
4. Raise Your Glass* featuring Matthew Morrison (Will) and Kristin Chenoweth (April)
5. Toxic* featuring Naya Rivera (Santana), Heather Morris (Brittany) and Dianna Agron (Quinn)
6. Happy featuring Gwyneth Paltrow (Holly), Kristin Chenoweth (April), Matthew Morrison (Will), Darren Criss (Blaine) and Amber Riley (Mercedes)
7. Party All the Time featuring Gwyneth Paltrow (Holly)
8. Total Eclipse of the Heart* featuring Matthew Morrison (Will) and Kristin Chenoweth (April)
9. Loser Like Me* featuring Darren Criss (Blaine), Kevin McHale (Artie), Chord Overstreet (Sam) and Jenna Ushkowitz (Tina)
10. Be Okay featuring Lea Michele (Rachel) and Naya Rivera (Santana)
11. I Am Changing featuring Amber Riley (Mercedes) and Chris Colfer (Kurt)
12. Just Give Me a Reason -featuring Dianna Agron (Quinn) and Mark Salling (Puck)
13. Don't Stop Believin'* -featuring Lea Michele (Rachel), Darren Criss (Blaine), Chris Colfer (Kurt), Matthew Morrison (Will), Kevin McHale (Artie) and Jenna Ushkowitz (Tina)
See the original story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
