(CNNGo) -- It's easy to find a great view in nature, but in a city? Even if you get the right hotel, there's always a risk you'll end up facing the highway rather than the ocean, the building next door or the "garden view."
Get the best view for your buck by requesting these specific rooms.
1. The Savoy, London
The historic Thames view from London's most iconic hotel was painted by Monet, who stayed there several times.
Room to request: Monet Suite; visitors and others on the rear of the sixth floor can enjoy the same skyline, with Big Ben on the horizon.
Rates: Rooms from US$650, Monet Suite US$4,950.
Five extraordinary airport lounges
2. Park Hotel, Tokyo
The Park Hotel occupies 10 floors of the Shiodome Media Tower in downtown Tokyo, and the city lights seen from here are staggering.
Room to request: The best views are from the corner suites looking towards the Tokyo Tower on the 25th to 34th floors of this soaring triangular skyscraper.
Rates: Rooms from US$340.
Read more on CNNGo: Forget luxury, economy hotels to take over Asia
3. Jumeirah Hotel, Frankfurt
The skyline of the Jumeirah really showcases Germany's financial capital, which is all about glamor and glittering modernity.
Room to request: Ask for room 2111, or one of the other 16 Skyline Deluxe rooms that enjoy this view.
Rates: Rooms from US$370.
Business travelers opt for homier digs
4. The Oberoi Amarvilas, Agra
What every first-time visitor to India wants is a view of the Taj Mahal, and Oberoi offers it in this colonial-style hotel where every room enjoys a view of the world's greatest monument to romance, just 600 meters down the road.
Room to request: Any
Rates: Rooms from US$775.
5. Mamilla Hotel, Jerusalem
The city's newest and best-located luxury hotel faces the historic city on one side, to which it's linked by a stylish pedestrian mall lined with designer boutiques and cafes leading to the Jaffa Gate.
Room to request: Be sure to ask for a room facing the Old City walls.
Rates: Rooms from US$430.
6. Hotel Americano, New York
This very cool Mexican-designed hotel in the historic Chelsea district on New York's west side enjoys Latin-style high design and spectacular views of the Manhattan skyline.
Room to request: One on the highest floor possible
Rates: Rooms from US$395.
7. The Peace Hotel, Shanghai
It's like going back to the future at this hotel on the historic Bund which now overlooks Shanghai's 21st-century history at Pudong, on the far side of the Huangpu river.
This was just swampland when the hotel was built in the Jazz Age to become the social hub of China's "Paris of the East" throughout the 1920s.
Room to request: Best view is from the Nine Nations Suite.
Rates: Rooms from US$211.
Read More at CNNGo: China's 8 best heritage hotels
8. Hotel de Crillon, Paris
From its fabulous position on the Place de la Concorde, this magnificent 18th-century palace hotel overlooks the Seine, the glass-roofed Grand Palais and the Eiffel Tower from all rooms facing the front.
Room to request: It's a low-rise building by modern standards, so ask for a room facing the front on the highest floor available.
Rates: Rooms from US$1,015.
9. Hotel de Paris, Monaco
Overlooking Monte Carlo harbor on one side and the famous casino on the other, Monaco's Hotel de Paris is the address in the tax haven principality perched between the Cote d'Azur and the Italian Riviera.
Room to request: Be sure to request a sea-view room.
Rates: Rooms from â‚¬465 (US$639).
Read more on CNNGo: 10 of the world's best hotels for pets
10. Grand Hotel Parker's, Naples
This stately old 19th-century hotel high on a hill has tremendous views of both city and sea from its higher floors.
Room to request: Ask for a front-facing room.
Rates: Rooms from US$230.
11. Hassler Roma, Rome
Of Rome's dozen or so five-star hotels, none can command the superlative viewpoint of the Hassler, sitting at the top of the Spanish Steps.
It looks straight down on the Piazza di Spagna and designer thoroughfare of the Via Condotti towards the river Tiber and Vatican on the far side.
Room to request: Facing the Vatican.
Rates: Rooms from US$678.
12. The Fairmont, San Francisco
San Francisco's original view hotel, the Fairmont has fabulous panoramic vistas from its position on Nob Hill.
Room to request: For many, the most thrilling outlook is from the rooms facing Fisherman's Wharf and Alcatraz. But you could request the greener and equally iconic view toward Telegraph Hill and the Coit Tower, which all guests enjoy as they ascend the glass elevator.
Rates: Rooms from US$499, Penthouse suite from US$15,000.
Read more on CNNGo: World's 15 most expensive hotels
13. Gran Hotel Domine, Bilbao
The city's claim to fame is the shimmering aluminum folds of Frank Gehry's Guggenheim Museum, and the Domine, a model of striking cutting-edge design, faces it fair and square.
Room to request: Be sure to demand a museum-view room, which will also look out over the city's fabulous new riverscape and bridge.
Rates: Rooms from US$193.
14. Grand Hyatt, Hong Kong
Once you had to stay on the less interesting Kowloon side of the water to get a view of Victoria Harbour. But thanks to cleverly angled windows, the Grand Hyatt has managed to achieve superb vistas from Hong Kong Island itself.
Room to request: Ask for a Grand Harbour room for the best view.
Rates: Rooms from US$443.
Read more on CNNGo: 15 unique, bizarre, amazing hotels
15. Shangri-La, Sydney
There's one killer view in Sydney; it takes in Circular Quay, with the Opera House on one side and the Harbour Bridge on the other.
Room to request: The Shangri-La has it all; the deep-pocketed should ask for the Princess Suite, but any room facing the harbor will do.
Rates: Rooms from US$267.
© 2011 Cable News Network Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
