Federal authorities are looking for a Delta Air Lines passenger who they say caused an uproar aboard a flight from Amsterdam to Detroit on Tuesday.
According to a criminal complaint, Jared Layne Hansen faces charges of interfering with a flight crew, making false statements about having weapons and saying the plane was being hijacked, and assaulting federal air marshals. An arrest warrant was issued.
Hansen, 31, from Salt Lake City, Utah, was sitting in seat 10B of the main cabin of Delta Flight 235. The trouble began, according to an affidavit filed by air marshal Dennis Scott, when Hansen tried to go into the front section of the cabin, which is restricted to business class passengers for security reasons.
Hansen refused to obey instructions from the flight crew that he go back to his seat or to a bathroom in the rear cabin, the document alleges.
"Mr. Hansen threatened to urinate in the aircraft galley and grabbed his penis and threatened to urinate all over himself," according to the criminal complaint.
Crew members summoned air marshals on the flight, saying they needed help with a passenger who appeared "heavily intoxicated" and was not behaving as requested.
The court document says one marshal found Hansen standing in the galley exposing his genitals. When the officer approached him, the complaint said, Hansen clinched his fists and started hitting himself in the face.
The marshals identified themselves as police officers and Hansen shoved two of them, the affidavit states. The marshals handcuffed Hansen and put him in his assigned seat.
Hansen allegedly made a variety of false statements during the remainder of the flight -- sometimes yelling them out -- such as "this is a hijacking." He allegedly claimed to have a handgun and a bomb. According to the complaint, he also said the air marshals aboard the plane were hijacking the plane and called them terrorists. Four marshals were on Flight 235.
The statements frightened the passengers, the document states, adding Hansen allegedly threatened the air marshals by saying he would "track us down."
Hansen was detained and questioned by law enforcement upon arrival Tuesday in Detroit, but he was not arrested. "We needed to do more investigation before we filed a criminal complaint," said Gina Balaya, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney's Office in Detroit.
Kim Thompson, an official with the Federal Air Marshal Service, said she could not discuss the case and referred all questions to Justice Department officials.
