Australian Formula One driver Mark Webber has aimed a verbal attack at his own Red Bull team, saying they are giving more support to teammate Sebastian Vettel as the pair both scrap for the 2010 world title.
Webber has led the world championship for large parts of the season, although he now sits in second and trails leader Fernando Alonso by 11 points with just two races of the season remaining.
The 23-year-old Vettel is also among a group of five drivers who are still in the race to claim the sport's biggest prize. The German is in fourth place, 14 points behind Webber and 25 behind Alonso.
However, 34-year-old Webber believes his world championship challenge has been "inconvenient" for his team, who are bidding to win both their first constructor's and driver's championships.
Is Ferrari's Fernando the fastest on the grid?
"I think I wasn't supposed to be in the hunt at all, so it's been maybe quite inconvenient, but I've enjoyed every minute of it," Webber told a news conference.
Webber was in a frank mood, and pulled no punches when asked whether he believed his team gave the 23-year-old more support.
"It's f****** obvious, isn't it? Of course," he said. "When young, new charges come on to the block that's where the emotion is. That's the way it is.
"I have had a great opportunity with a great car to do some great things this year. I've got favorites in life. Favorite people I like to be with. That is human nature."
Webber is also not expecting support from his teammate in pursuit of his first driver's championship.
"If it hasn't happened by now, it's never going to happen. Nothing has changed between Seb and I over the last five or six races. The only thing different is that Fernando is leading."
"Obviously Seb has never led this year and I have. We'll see on the Monday after Abu Dhabi if we have taken the right approach."
The relationship between the pair has been under scrutiny all season, with the issue coming to a head after they crashed when Vettel tried to pass Webber at this season's Turkish Grand Prix.
Both will line up on the grid for the Brazilian Grand Prix, which takes place on Sunday at the Interlagos circuit in Sao Paulo.
