Pop star Justin Bieber was granted re-entry Friday into the United States following a search of his private airplane by federal officials who said they detected an odor of marijuana after it landed in New Jersey, a law enforcement official told CNN.
The plane carrying Bieber and others -- presumably his entourage -- was clearing customs after touching down at Teterboro Airport when U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers said they detected the odor, law enforcement sources said.
Drug-sniffing dogs were used to search the plane, according to one of the sources. But no sign of drugs were detected and no illegal substances were found, the source said.
Bieber's interview was described by another law enforcement source as one that is carried out for anyone entering the United States, and that it can take 10 minutes or 10 hours. The interview is routinely conducted to ensure people entering the country are in compliance with U.S. law, the source said.
Bieber was interviewed for several hours before being cleared to enter the United States.
The plane sat on the airport tarmac for at least four hours, and CNN saw law enforcement officers getting off the plane.
Customs and Border Protection officials did not immediately respond to a CNN request for comment.
It's the latest headache for the embattled singer, who has made a number of headlines in recent weeks.
Bieber's plane was en route from Canada, where on Wednesday he surrendered to Toronto police, who booked him on an assault charge. He was accused of hitting a limousine driver a month ago.
That same day, Florida authorities released police documents that accused Bieber of being under the influence of alcohol, pot and Xanax when police stopped him for allegedly street racing in Miami Beach last week.
Bieber was booked on charges of driving under the influence, resisting arrest and driving with an expired license. He was briefly jailed, and his attorney has entered a not guilty plea on his behalf.
The two arrests come on the heels of allegations that he egged a neighbor's house in Calabasas, California, causing thousands of dollars in damage in the process.
When authorities searched the singer's home as part of the investigation into the alleged egg-throwing, a sheriff's deputy found suspected illegal drugs at the bedside of Bieber house guest Lil Za, who now faces a felony drug charge.
A prosecutor is expected to decide as early as next week whether Bieber will be charged with felony vandalism in connection with the case.
Since being discovered in 2008 performing cover songs in clips posted on YouTube, Bieber shot into the superstar stratosphere with a legion of young fans known as Beliebers.
But his onstage persona, once so appealing to parents of his 'tween fans, started taking hits.
From being accused of public urination to rumors of a visit to a Brazilian brothel and run-ins with police, including a search of his Calabasas home by authorities in connection with the egging case, his once squeaky clean image has all but disappeared.
In its place, a bad-boy image that has a number of critics, including some calling for the Canadian-born Bieber's deportation.
The petition, titled "Deport Justin Bieber and revoke his green card," had garnered more than 100,000 signatures.
Bieber has a visa allowing him to legally live in the United States because of his "extraordinary ability" in the arts.
Bieber's musical mentor, Usher Raymond, a former teen star himself, told MTV in December 2013 that his young protege was experiencing the pains of growing up in the spotlight.
"With success comes great responsibility. And being able to grow up in it and unfortunately be analyzed in front of the world for just growing up, I think they will be able to see the truth," Usher said. "And they can make an assessment based off of what his reality looks like."
On Thursday, Bieber took to Twitter to thank supporters in his hometown of Stratford, Canada, where he took refuge before flying to New Jersery.
"Never forget where you come from or those who supported you before anyone else. still the small town kid. thanks," he tweeted.
Could Justin Bieber be deported?
Susan Candiotti reported from Teterboro, New Jersey; and Chelsea J. Carter wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Evan Perez, Alan Duke and Lisa Respers France contributed to this report.
