Editor's note: CNN.com has a business partnership with CareerBuilder.com, which serves as the exclusive provider of job listings and services to CNN.com.
(CareerBuilder.com)  -- If you love the nightlife, and, perhaps more importantly, you like to boogie, why wait until the weekend? If you thrive on meeting new people and being in-the-know about the latest events and products, with the right training and experience, you could get paid to play. Check out five jobs that let you do just that:
Media Specialists
What they do: Media specialists serve as advocates for professional organizations or individuals by developing plans to establish or build a client's public reputation. They send out press releases and maintain relationships with members of the media to keep the public informed about their clients' activities.
Why they party: They are often called to arrange and make appearances at public events to maintain contact between their clients and the public, so depending on the client, these events could be everything from political rallies to swanky product launch parties.
How to break in: Media specialists often hold degrees in public relations and start their careers as interns. Jobs often come through networking and making industry contacts through public relations and media organizations.
What they get paid: $86,292 (average annual salary)
Radio/TV Announcers
What they do: Radio or television announcers' jobs can range from interviewing guests to moderating panels to providing commentary for occasions such as parades and sporting events.
Why they party: Well-known among radio and television audiences, announcers are often called on to make promotional appearances at public events. They could be at a neighborhood music festival one day and the launch of a trendy new bar the next.
How to break in: Because competition for network employment is intense and employers look for college graduates with extensive experience, many announcers start at stations in small cities before advancing to a job that reaches a larger market.
What they get paid: $35, 755 (average annual salary)
Event Photographers
What they do: Photographers produce and preserve images that paint a picture, tell a story, or record an event.
Why they party: Shooting on location can mean exclusive invitations to wedding receptions, parties, galas, fundraisers, and all sorts of celebrations where music, food, and the occasional, responsibly-handled drink are plentiful.
How to break in: Building a good portfolio is essential to landing jobs in this field. If you don't have a degree in photography, take some classes and try to land a job as a photographer's assistant. Many photographers develop contacts in the field by subscribing to photographic newsletters and joining camera clubs.
What it pays: $27,850 (average annual salary)
Social Columnists
What they do: Social columnists gather information to write about local, state, national and international social happenings and report on the actions of noteworthy public figures at these events.
Why they party: Like photographers, these members of the media also get exclusive access to fabulous parties and social celebrations.
How to break in: Like many of these jobs, columnists often start small as general assignment reporters or copy editors at smaller newspapers before working their way up.
What it pays: $44,419 (average annual salary)
Promotion Models
What they do: Promotional models help create public interest in buying products such as clothing, cosmetics, food items and housewares. They answer questions and provide product information to potential consumers.
Why they party: Demonstrations and product promotions are conducted in places that the products are most likely to sell, which can mean appearances at clubs, premiere parties and festivals if the product is right.
How to break in: Oftentimes, good communications skills, an outgoing personality and pleasant appearance trump education and experience when it comes to getting hired.
What it pays: $23,104 (average annual salary) E-mail to a friend
Copyright CareerBuilder.com 2009. All rights reserved. The information contained in this article may not be published, broadcast or otherwise distributed without the prior written authority
