Awards season isn't over yet.
MTV has announced its own list of film nominees for its 2014 Movie Awards, and you won't be surprised to find that some of the biggest titles at the Oscars are also up for MTV's golden popcorn trophy.
In the movie of the year category, the Academy Awards' best picture winner "12 Years A Slave" is competing against "American Hustle," "The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug," "The Hunger Games: Catching Fire" and "The Wolf of Wall Street."
This isn't the first time Oscar favorites have competed against fan-fueled franchises, as last year's movie of the year category pitted "Silver Linings Playbook" and "Django Unchained" against "Ted" and "Marvel's The Avengers."
Given that it was Joss Whedon's critically praised blockbuster "Avengers" that won the best of the year honor, we'd venture to say that an Oscar nod doesn't mean success at MTV's ceremony.
In addition to categorical mainstays like best film, best actor and best actress, MTV's show is also known for its offbeat categories, like best on-screen duo, best #wtf moment, best kiss and best shirtless performance.
Interestingly, in this year's best on-screen duo category, there's a posthumous entry: late actor Paul Walker is nominated with his "Fast & Furious" franchise co-star Vin Diesel for 2013's "Fast & Furious 6."
Check out a partial list of who's in the running this year:
Best male performance
Bradley Cooper, "American Hustle"
Chiwetel Ejiofor, "12 Years A Slave"
Josh Hutcherson, "The Hunger Games: Catching Fire"
Leonardo DiCaprio, "The Wolf of Wall Street"
Matthew McConaughey, "Dallas Buyers Club"
Best female performance
Amy Adams, "American Hustle"
Jennifer Aniston, "We're the Millers"
Jennifer Lawrence, "The Hunger Games: Catching Fire"
Lupita Nyong'o, "12 Years A Slave"
Sandra Bullock, "Gravity"
Breakthrough performance
Liam James, "The Way, Way Back"
Margot Robbie, "The Wolf of Wall Street"
Michael B. Jordan, "Fruitvale Station"
Miles Teller, "The Spectacular Now"
Will Poulter, "We're the Millers"
Best on-screen duo
Amy Adams and Christian Bale, "American Hustle" 
Ice Cube and Kevin Hart, "Ride Along"
Jonah Hill and Leonardo DiCaprio, "The Wolf of Wall Street"
Matthew McConaughey and Jared Leto, "Dallas Buyers Club"
Vin Diesel and Paul Walker, "Fast & Furious 6"
Best shirtless performance
Chris Hemsworth, "Thor: The Dark World"
Jennifer Aniston, "We're the Millers"
Leonardo DiCaprio, "The Wolf of Wall Street"
Sam Claflin, "The Hunger Games: Catching Fire"
Zac Efron, "That Awkward Moment"
Best fight
Jason Bateman vs. Melissa McCarthy, "Identity Thief" 
Jennifer Lawrence, Josh Hutcherson and Sam Claflin vs. Mutant Monkeys, "The Hunger Games: Catching Fire"
Jonah Hill vs. James Franco and Seth Rogen, "This Is the End"
Orlando Bloom and Evangeline Lilly vs. Orcs, "The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug"
The cast of "Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues"
Best villain
Barkhad Abdi, "Captain Phillips"
Benedict Cumberbatch, "Star Trek Into Darkness"
Donald Sutherland, "The Hunger Games: Catching Fire"
Michael Fassbender, "12 Years A Slave"
Mila Kunis, "Oz the Great and Powerful"
#WTF moment
Cameron Diaz, "The Counselor"
Channing Tatum and Danny McBride, "This Is the End"
Johnny Knoxville and Jackson Nicoll, "Jackass Presents: Bad Grandpa"
Leonardo DiCaprio, "The Wolf of Wall Street"
Steve Carell, Will Ferrell, Paul Rudd and David Koechner, "Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues"
Best kiss
Ashley Benson, James Franco and Vanessa Hudgens, "Spring Breakers"
Emma Roberts, Jennifer Aniston and Will Poulter, "We're the Millers"
Jennifer Lawrence and Amy Adams, "American Hustle"
Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Scarlett Johansson, "Don Jon"
Shailene Woodley and Miles Teller, "The Spectacular Now"
Best comedic performance
Jason Sudeikis, "We're the Millers"
Johnny Knoxville: "Jackass Presents: Bad Grandpa"
Jonah Hill, "The Wolf of Wall Street"
Kevin Hart, "Ride Along"
Melissa McCarthy, "The Heat"
For a full list of nominees, visit MTV.com, where fans are now able to vote for their favorite movie moments and performances. The winners will be announced during the 2014 MTV Movie Awards on April 13, which will be hosted by Conan O'Brien.
