(CNN Student News) -- September 5, 2014
At the NATO meeting in Wales, leaders are discussing everything from ISIS to Ukraine to Afghanistan. Across the U.S., arguments are being made for and against raising the federal minimum wage. And in Guatemala, a CNN Hero is giving his students new hope for the future. It's all included in this Friday's edition of CNN Student News.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. What holiday does the U.S. celebrate on the first Monday in September?
2. Kim Jong Un is the leader of what communist Asian country?
3. What is the name of Britain's prime minister, who supports new laws aimed at preventing terrorism?
4. What kind of farm is the London Array?
5. What African country has been fighting the Al-Shabaab terrorist group, which wants to turn the nation into a fundamentalist Islamic state?
6. What is the federal minimum wage in the U.S.?
7. What Eastern European country, which borders Russia, did President Obama visit on Wednesday?
8. In what West African country, which has been hit hardest by a recent Ebola outbreak, did an American doctor recently contract the disease?
9. In what U.S. state did the Little Rock Nine make history by integrating their high school?
10. What organization of 28 countries is currently meeting in Wales to discuss international events?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
