Britney Spears accused a former bodyguard of trying to "make a name for himself" by suing her for sexual harassment.
Fernando Flores, who worked for the pop star earlier this year, filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles Wednesday claiming Spears intentionally inflicted emotional distress on him.
The lawsuit claims Spears made "repeated unwanted sexual advances" on Flores, had "vigorous" sex in front of him and near her two children and violently argued with her boyfriend.
A statement posted on Spears' website said the suit was "another unfortunate situation where someone is trying to take advantage of the Spears family and make a name for himself."
Spears said the California Department of Children and Family Services already investigated the accusations and closed the case without any action.
"Ms. Spears and her attorneys have every expectation that this matter will be dismissed by the courts," her statement said
The filing said the harassment began after Flores was hired as a guard at her Calabasas, California home last February by Advanced Security Concepts Corporation.
Spears made "repeated unwanted sexual advances to Plaintiff, summoning Plaintiff to her room at her residence for no other purpose or reason that to expose her naked or near naked body to Plaintiff," the suit claimed.
Flores was "shocked and disgusted by the incident," it said.
When he reported it to his supervisor, Flores was told "You know you liked it," and his complaints were "ignored or mocked," it said.
Spears allegedly "engaged in numerous sex acts in front of Plaintiff, including but not limited to sexual intercourse."
The suit detailed an alleged incident at a California hotel where Flores heard Spears "loudly having sexual relations while her two children were in the suite with her."
Flores claimed he saw Spears "having vigorous sexual relations" when he entered her home on two occasions.
He also said he witnessed "violent quarrels with her boyfriend" while her children present.
Flores claimed he was "humiliated and traumatized" when Spears cursed and threatened to fire him because he was unable to purchase her a frozen "slurpee" at a Hollywood movie theater.
