Jo-Wilfried Tsonga boosted his Australian Open hopes by overcoming difficult conditions to beat fellow Frenchman Gael Monfils in the final of the Qatar Open on Saturday.
The match was delayed by misty conditions, and world No. 6 Tsonga suffered one worrying slip on the greasy hard-court surface before completing a 7-5 6-3 victory in Doha.
The 26-year-old claimed the first title of the 2012 ATP Tour season and the eighth of his career, showing the sort of form that took him to the final of the year's opening grand slam in Melbourne four years ago.
He became the third Frenchman to win the event, being played in the Gulf state for the 20th time, and extended his career record over his Davis Cup teammate to 3-1.
Federer and Nadal exit Qatar tournament
"It was difficult. The surface was very slippery especially on the 'Qatar' sign painted on the court," Tsonga, who won 16 of the last 19 points, told reporters.
"It was dangerous but they did enough to make it okay. This is a good win for me going into the Australian Open, it's just amazing."
Tsonga took his place in the final after world No. 3 and three-time defending champion Roger Federer withdrew before their semifinal due to a back problem.
Monfils qualified after beating second-ranked Spaniard Rafael Nadal in straight sets.
Meanwhile, world No. 4 Andy Murray will take on Ukrainian third seed Alexandr Dolgopolov in Sunday's Brisbane International final.
The top-seeded Briton beat Australian teenager Bernard Tomic 6-3 6-2 on Saturday in his first match under the guidance of his new coach, former world No. 1 Ivan Lendl.
Murray, last year's Australian Open runner-up, reached his 31st career final after eliminating the 42nd-ranked 19-year-old.
World No. 15 Dolgopolov defeated French second seed Gilles Simon 6-3 6-4 to reach his third hard-court final and third overall, giving him the chance to win his second title in a clash with a player who has beaten him in both their previous meetings.
In India, Serbian top seed Janko Tipsarevic will face Canadian No. 4 Milos Raonic in Sunday's Chennai Open final.
World No. 9 Tipsarevic beat Japanese qualifier Go Soeda 6-1 6-4 to qualify for his eighth singles final, having lost five of those.
The 31st-ranked Raonic, named 2011 ATP Newcomer of the Year after winning his first title in San Jose, defeated Spanish second seed Nicolas Almagro 6-4 6-4 to reach his third final.
