A Mario Gomez hat-trick earned Bayern Munich a 3-0 win over Kaiserslautern at the Fritz-Walter-Stadion on Saturday to send them top of the Bundesliga.
The German striker opened the scoring in the 37th minute from the penalty spot before added a second in the 55th minute.
His third came 14 minutes later with a left foot strike after some good work by Thomas Muller.
The win puts Jupp Heynckes' men ahead of Werder Bremen, who also won on Saturday, on goal difference.
Goals from Austrian striker Marko Arnautovic (38th minute) and an 83rd minute strike from Sweden's Markus Rosenberg ensured Bremen beat Hoffenheim 2-1 after Roberto Firmino had given the home side the lead in the 37th minute.
The Bundesliga's top two teams last year, Borussia Dortmund and Bayer Leverkusen, played out a goalless draw at the Bay Arena with both sides finishing the match with ten men.
Leverkusen's left back Michal Kadlec was shown a straight red card in the 64th minute and was soon followed by Dortmund midfielder Mario Gotze who was shown a second yellow for kicking out against Hanno Balitsch with 13 minutes remaining.
The result leaves both teams on seven points, with Dortmund in fourth place. Leverkusen are sixth.
Freiburg secured their first win of the season with a 3-0 victory against Wolfsburg.
Oliver Barth opened the scoring for the home side with a 30th-minute header, before Slovakian striker Erik Jenvresik added a second 10 minutes later.
Congolese midfielder Cedrik Makiadi sealed victory with a fine volley in the 59th minute.
Nuremberg claimed their second win of the season with a 1-0 at home to Augsburg but Hamburg continue their poor start to the season going down 4-3 at home to Cologne.
Third-placed Borussia Moenchengladbach travel to Schalke on Sunday while Hanover host Mainz.
Over in Spain, La Liga kicked off with wins for Real Sociedad, Valencia and Real Betis.
Spanish striker, Imanol Agirretxe scored both goals for 10-man Real Sociedad in a 2-1 win at Sporting Gijon, while Ruben Castro scored a late winner for Real Betis as they overcame Granada 1-0.
But the game of the day was at the Estadio Mestalla as Valencia overturned a 3-1 deficit against Racing Santander to run out 4-3 winners, thanks to a hat-trick from striker Roberto Soldado.
His two late goals capped a stunning comeback for last season's third-placed team.
After giving Valencia the lead in the opening minute, Soldado then conspired to score a headed own-goal six minutes later.
Racing took full advantage of the gift with Lautaro Acosta adding a second in the 14th minute, before Adrian Gonzalez netted a third ten minutes into the second half.
French defender Adil Rami pulled one back for the home side moments later before Soldado's goals in the 88th and 90th minute ensured the new season opened in memorable fashion.
