(CNN)One of 10 people killed in the collision of two helicopters in Argentina, France's Florence Arthaud has been described as a "national treasure" by fellow sailor Shirley Robertson.
"Florence held the hearts of her nation when she won the Route de Rhum in 1990 -- a crazy sprint across the Atlantic, alone in very fast boats, an event watched live across the country with millions coming to see their heroes set off," Mainsail presenter Robertson told CNN.
Along with Camille Muffat and Alexis Vastine, the 57-year-old Arthaud was one of three sports stars killed in the collision as two helicopters transported the athletes to a gorge in northwestern Argentina to film the reality TV show "Dropped" for French broadcaster TF1.
According to Robertson, Arthaud had inspired a generation of French sailors.
"Brave and brilliant, nothing was impossible," added Robertson of Arthaud. "A true role model to the yachtswomen who would follow, she led the way.
"Her sense of adventure continued and she was well known for her TV documentaries bringing the power and passion of the sea into the living rooms of her adoring public. The nation will mourn this heroine's loss."
Known as the "little girl of the Atlantic," Arthaud was the daughter of Jacques Arthaud, the director of the Arthaud publishing house.
"A true character, she made her mark in the sport through her determination and showed to the whole world that sailing was not merely a sport for men; that women could now also take part in the adventure and succeed," said the French Sailing Federation in a statement on its website.
Despite being left in a coma after a car accident at the age of 17, Arthaud crossed the Atlantic for the first time when she was 19, going on to win a number of races including the 1997 Transpacific race that traverses the Pacific Ocean.
The boat that she had sailed to win the Route du Rhum -- Pierre 1er -- also helped her establish a women's singlehanded west to east transatlantic record, as Arthaud notched a time of nine days 22 hours and five minutes.
"Her death has moved the French sailing world," added the French Sailing Federation. "All our thoughts are with her family and her loved ones."
Boxer Vastine, 28, and swimmer Camille Muffat, 25,  were also killed in the crash.
Top French athletes among 10 dead after 2 helicopters collide in Argentina
