Italian champions Inter Milan have unveiled new signing Samuel Eto'o, with the Cameroon striker immediately being forced to deny suggestions from the Italian media that he has ever had a problem with new coach Jose Mourinho.
Samuel Eto'o parades his new Inter Milan jersey after completing his move from Barcelona.
Eto'o, who completed his switch from Barcelona on Monda, denied he has issues with Portuguese coach Mourinho and insists he never insulted his team's style of play after a Champions League match between Barca and Chelsea.
"I never said those words that were attributed to me," he told a press conference. "There is also a tape which proves it and, in any case, that was after an intense game.
Top 20 summer transfer targets
"Now I am happy to be here, for me it is a great honor to play for a coach like Jose. It has been years that I have been trying to play under Mourinho and I have never managed it."
Mourinho also laughed off suggestions the pair do not see eye to eye, insisting they have very similar personalities. "I have met Samuel six times in three years, and I never cared to know if he really said something not very nice about me," said the Nerazzurri coach.
"Why? Because he is like me: after losing an important match he doesn't go home happy. The year after this game I wanted to take him to Chelsea, but I wasn't allowed to. I am very happy to have him with us and I'm not talking only as Jose Mourinho but on behalf of the whole squad.
Eto'o has signed a five-year contract with Inter as part of a swap deal that saw Zlatan Ibrahimovic move the other way.
Inter will also receive 45 million euros ($64m) but the 28-year-old, who only had a season left on his contract with Barca, has shrugged off suggestions this proves Ibrahimovic is the more highly rated of the two.
"Ibra is a great player but I am Samuel Eto'o and my past and my victories talk for me," said Eto'o. "I don't like parallels being drawn. "I believe the victories I have earned until now can contribute to giving my name the right value."
Eto'o scored 125 goals in 144 games for Barcelona, firing them to a string of titles, including three leagues, two Champions Leagues and a Copa del Rey success, in his five seasons with the club.
Eto'o has spent his entire career in Spain since leaving Cameroon in 1997, playing for Real Madrid, Leganes, Espanyol, Mallorca and Barcelona.
However, he expects he will adapt easily to the Serie A style. "It's true I have always played in Spain but I have great experience of international matches," continued Eto'o.
"Here in Serie A there are big players because great players are in teams where they know they will be able to win things. I am here because it is a very competitive league.
"It's true Ibra and Kaka have left Italy, but there are lots of great players in Italy and I am convinced I have made the best choice."
