A three-goal blitz in nine minutes sent Arsenal second in the English Premier League as they finally ended their hoodoo against champions Chelsea by winning 3-1 at Emirates Stadium on Monday night.
Goals from Alex Song, Cesc Fabregas and Theo Walcott put Arsene Wenger's side two points behind leaders Manchester United, and ended a run of five successive defeats to Chelsea.
Branislav Ivanovic pulled a goal back for the visitors, but it wasn't enough to end their miserable run of form as they continue to search for their first win since early November.
The Gunners were handed a boost before kickoff as Spain midfielder Fabregas was restored to the starting lineup, as well as Dutch striker Robin Van Persie, but Chelsea's French forward Nicolas Anelka was absent with a knee injury.
Football's heroes and villains of 2010
The first half was a scrappy affair as Chelsea sat back and invited their opponents to attack them, with neither side creating much in the way of goalscoring opportunities.
But that all changed five minutes before the break as Samir Nasri forced Chelsea keeper Petr Cech into a fine save with an effort that was curling towards the top corner.
And just four minutes later Arsenal were ahead. Song exchanged passes with Wilshere, before picking up a loose ball in the area and driving it into the corner of the net.
The home side came roaring out of the traps in the second half, as Walcott latched onto a loose pass from Michael Essien and drew Cech before squaring to Fabregas, who stroked the ball into an empty net on 51 minutes.
Little more than a minute later the roles were reversed as Fabregas clipped a ball through to Walcott, who fired low past Cech from the edge of the area.
Chelsea gave themselves a glimmer of hope on 57 minutes as Ivanovic glanced Didier Drogba's curling freekick into the net, but despite committing plenty of men forward the champions couldn't fashion a way back into the match.
Nasri and Abou Diaby had chances to compound Chelsea's misery, but both squandered late opportunities.
Chelsea's defeat is bound to heap more pressure on their Italian manager Carlo Ancelotti, who has presided over a wretched run of just one win in eight games.
"We have to wake up because we are asleep," he told Sky Sports after the game. "We did not play well but Arsenal did and they deserved to win. We must stay focused and continue to work hard."
Arsenal boss Wenger said: "We were disciplined, played for each other and were less nervous and perhaps less adventurous at some stages.
"Let's hope the game has strengthened our belief and that we can challenge for the championship."
