After Katy Perry posted a picture of her and Hillary Clinton, it only took Vice President Joe Biden a few days to one-up the former secretary of state.
Perry had offered to write a "theme" song for Clinton's presidential campaign, should she decide to run in 2016, after the two met at a book signing in Los Angeles for Clinton's memoir "Hard Choices."
Then Biden made his move: He invited the pop star to the White House, posed for a selfie with her and even got on the phone with her grandmother.
"What a Q-T," Perry captioned the Instagram photo of her and Biden, who is a fan, a White House official told CNN.
Perry's fans seemed to agree and less than 24 hours after it was posted, the vice presidential selfie beat out Perry's photo with Clinton by several thousand likes.
That's a BFD, as Biden might say.
It's not the first time Biden has trumped Clinton news with a little "news" of his own as speculation simmers about whether they will run for the presidency in 2016.
When Clinton said she hadn't driven a car in nearly 20 years, Biden was quick to profess his love of American sports cars and even suggested that not being able to drive the new Corvette could be the one reason he doesn't run for president.
"I'd like to get that Z06 from 0 to 60 in 3.4 seconds," Biden said in February.
And then Clinton tried to climb out of the hole she had dug by saying her family was in debt and "dead broke" after leaving the White House.
Oh yeah? Dead broke? Well the vice president doesn't even have a savings account, Biden said just a day after Clinton reignited the controversy over her wealth.
"Don't hold it against me I don't own a single stock or bond," Biden continued. "Don't hold it that I have no savings account."
While the Bidens' investments are listed in his wife's name, the vice president does in fact have several savings accounts.
But that's not the point, jabbin' Joe would say. Remember instead that he was listed as one of the poorest members of Congress when he was a senator.
And then there's their new BFF Katy Perry.
Oh, Hillary -- you just met her and her posse?
"I've known them for like seven years ... so, just a little bit longer. I've just known them for a really long time ... so, longer. So, just better friends."
Wait -- that's not Biden. It's a quote from Penelope, the absurdly competitive Saturday Night Live character played by Kristen Wiig who has an overpowering urge to outshine everyone around her.
The back and forth between Clinton and Biden even prompted Jon Stewart to call a "Poor-Off" to settle the would-be-rivals' competing claims.
"Don't hold it against me but my clothes are made of old curtains" Stewart as Biden said.
Stewart even nicknamed the veep, Joe "I'm-allergic-to-money" Biden.
But the polls show Clinton is the clear frontrunner among Democrats for 2016, with Biden a distant second.
While they're both considering their options, Biden's got to keep himself in the headlines. And apparently letting Clinton set up his punch lines has helped Biden flaunt his qualities and accomplishments.
Like travel.
Clinton has touted her travel credentials -- 112 countries and nearly 1 million miles -- during her whirlwind book tour.
But the day Clinton's book was released, Biden brought up his own encounters with world leaders and the frequent flier miles he has racked up as vice president -- more than 900,000.
Close enough.
