Defending champion Roger Federer secured his place in the Australian Open semifinals on Tuesday after a straight-sets dismissal of Stanislas Wawrinka.
Federer, 29, moved into the final four at Melbourne Park for an eighth consecutive year thanks to a 6-1 6-3 6-3 triumph over his Swiss compatriot.
Sixteen-time grand slam winner Federer took control of the match early after he broke 19th seed Wawrinka in his first service game, before the second seed wrapped up victory in one hour and 47 minutes.
"I think it was a good match for me really," Federer told the ATP Tour's website. "I started off well. Was able to serve and return really well.
What are your top ten Australian Open moments?
"I expected him to even serve bigger today because the ball travels faster through the air. For some reason I was able to return him well."
The sights of magic Melbourne
The clash at the Rod Laver Arena -- which saw the gold medal winning doubles team from the 2008 Beijing Olympics go head-to-head -- was the first time two Swiss men had met in the quarterfinals of a major tournament.
Wawrinka, the Chennai Open champion, admitted that Federer, who recently won the Qatar Open, was the better man on the day.
"For sure I'm disappointed to lose," Wawrinka said. "But I think he was just playing too good. For sure, you look at the match from outside you don't see how good he was playing.
"But he was always giving me some answer, and he was just being really too good for me."
Federer's opponent in his semifinal will be third seed Novak Djokovic, who fired past Czech Tomas Berdych 6-1 7-6 (7-5) 6-1.
Serbia's Djokovic, a champion in Melbourne in 2008, had the upper hand in the opening exchanges as he wrapped up the first set in 38 minutes.
Sixth seed Berdych rallied in the second set and took it to a tie-break, only to see his forehand shot clip the net and bounce out of bounds with the score level at 5-5.
Djokovic, 23, won the tie-break and consequently the match  to set up a rematch of the 2010 U.S. Open semifinal against Federer in the last four.
"I was trying to change the pace and put him out of his comfort zone," Djokovic, who beat Federer in the Flushing Meadows semifinal, told Australian broadcaster Seven Sport.
"I needed to put variety into the game. Second set I was lucky to win the tie-break. I had problems with the (contact) lens (during the second set), it sometimes gets dry but it all got solved."
