(CNN)Police say she's at it again.
"Serial Stowaway" Marilyn Jean Hartman has been caught doing what she appears to be good at, traveling for free.
She is known for repeatedly trying to board flights in California and Arizona without a ticket -- and sometimes getting away with it.  This time she's flipped coasts and is under arrest in Florida.
Hartman has been charged with fraud/impersonation, defrauding an innkeeper and trespassing and now has a complimentary room at the Nassau County Jail.
Hartman's latest travelog begins in Minnesota, according to Bill Leeper at the Nassau County Sheriff's Office.
She told deputies she traveled to Jacksonville on Sunday without a ticket.  Authorities are investigating whether she stowed away or not.  She did not give an airline name.
Once in Jacksonville, she hopped a hotel transport to the Omni Amelia Island Plantation Resort, about a 30-mile drive from the airport, where she checked into another person's room under her real name and paid with her own credit card.
Hartman bolted when the person who had booked the room showed up.  She was found Monday, staying in another room at the resort that was being renovated.
Hartman has been arrested numerous times for trying to sneak aboard airlines and staying in places without authorization.
In August, she had two run-ins with authorities at Sky Harbor Airport in Phoenix. On August 14, Hartman was given a warning for trying to enter a security checkpoint without a ticket. Twelve days later, she was arrested in an airport terminal for criminal trespass.  A day after that, Hartman was again seen loitering around a security checkpoint, Phoenix police said.
Earlier that month, she pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor count of stowing away a flight from San Jose, California, to Los Angeles International Airport, CNN affiliate KTLA reported. She was sentenced to two years probation and three days in jail. She was given credit for time served and released.
Outside the courthouse, Hartman refused to detail to reporters how she got through security.
"I don't think it's wise to say how I got through. I don't want to help the enemy," she said.
"...I want to go with a paid ticket. ... I want to do everything legal," Hartman said. "It was clearly wrong on my part. ... It was stupid and it is something I don't want to repeat."
A day later, Hartman was back at LAX and re-arrested.
Hartman has long been described by authorities as a serial stowaway for repeatedly trying to board flights at San Francisco International Airport to Hawaii without a ticket.
Earlier in 2014, she was sentenced to probation and ordered to stay away from the San Francisco airport.
Hartman's first court appearance on the latest charges is scheduled for Tuesday.
No matter what happens in court, at least one important question remains:  How did she get to Minnesota?
5 stowaway attempts that didn't end tragically
CNN's Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this report.
