This weekend's inaugural Korean Grand Prix is a step into the unknown for Formula One, but Red Bull's title hopefuls Mark Webber and Sebastian Vettel are looking forward to the challenge as the 2010 season heads into its final three races.
Vettel led the Austrian team to a 1-2 in Japan two weeks ago, leaving him tied for second overall with Ferrari's Fernando Alonso 14 points behind Webber.
The Yeongam circuit in South Korea was finally cleared by F1 officials last week, despite rules stating a new venue should be completed 90 days before a race is due to take place, and the drivers are keen to see a track that most have experienced only in simulators and video footage.
"It looks like a nice layout in terms of the track, we are all optimistic to go there and have a good run and I am looking forward to it," Webber told the Red Bull website.
Vettel added: "I am pretty excited about South Korea: it's a new race track, which means none of us have been there before. While I know the race will take place, I can't really say anything about the track itself until Friday."
Korean GP gets green light from FIA
The duo will be taking tips from Karun Chandhok, a driver for Hispania Racing who carried out a test run in a Red Bull show event there in September.
"The track's got a good mix of corners and I think we'll see a lot of overtaking in the first sector -- there are long straights into slow hairpins," he told the Red Bull website.
"The straight after turn one and two is really long, so we may see some good slipstreaming there, like in Shanghai. From turn seven onwards, there's a fast section of flowing corners all the way back to the start-finish line, so I think the Red Bull Racing guys will be happy in sectors two and three. It's an interesting layout and the location's nice, overlooking the sea."
Latest F1 championship standings
The 3.5-mile (5.6-kilometer) Korean International Circuit was built on marshland on the South Korean coast and is the work of German Hermann Tilke, who has also designed F1 venues in Abu Dhabi, Malaysia, China, Bahrain, Singapore and Spain among others.
It will be the center of a new urban development, sited in an area popular with tourists about five hours' drive from the capital Seoul.
McLaren's Lewis Hamilton, who trails Webber by 28 points, is also looking forward to the race as he seeks to regain the world title he won in 2008.
"I've driven the Korean International Circuit on the simulator, and my first impressions were extremely positive," the British driver told the official F1 website.
"On paper, the track should suit our car quite well -- the first sector is all about good end-of-straight speeds and strong performance under heavy braking, both key characteristics of our car.
"And the middle sector is fast and flowing -- it's the kind of place where you want a car with a good balance and good downforce. I think it'll reward commitment, it actually feels like quite a nice driver's track."
Vettel wins in Japan as Webber extends lead
His teammate Jenson Button, who is fifth overall, has also been impressed with the circuit.
"There appear to be a couple of very likely opportunities for overtaking, particularly at the end of the three main straights, but possibly also off-line in the twisty final sector," the defending world champion said.
"The track looks quite high-speed, and the walls are close, so I think it'll be an interesting challenge."
Seven-time world champion Michael Schumacher believes the drivers will be able to adapt to the new track.
"Finally this year we are going to a circuit which is not only new for me but for all of the drivers. Korea will be a very interesting country to see and even if the track has only just been finished in time, I am confident that everything will be fine," the Mercedes veteran said.
"I am very much in favor of new races and I think it is a benefit for all of us in the sport. It should not be too complicated to learn the layout and we are used to adapting quickly to new circumstances."
