(InStyle) -- Oscar night is Hollywood's main fashion event, and most notable on the red carpet this year was our favorite actresses stepping out in uber feminine -- not just fashion forward -- looks.
Indeed, from the most delicate shades of blush to the boldest fuchsia, the red carpet turned pink! Exaggerated ruffles, soft draping, frothy fabrics, dramatic trains and Cinderella-esque silhouettes gave new meaning to the term Hollywood royalty.
The few celebrities who bucked the romantic trend, including Sarah Jessica Parker, Sandra Bullock and Meryl Streep, chose sophisticated styles with retro vibes.
From a timeless beauty (Demi Moore) to a graceful Hollywood icon (Meryl Streep), here are the night's fashion winners.
Demi Moore
Demi Moore often chooses classic, tailored cuts, but last night she glowed in a stunning blush-toned Atelier Versace silk organza gown with petal-like tiers of ruffles. She finished off this softer look with Van Cleef & Arpels tassel earrings and diamond cuffs, a gold leather Salvatore Ferragamo clutch and dress-matching Versace satin sandals.
Diane Kruger
The ever-flawless Diane Kruger turned to her favorite designer Karl Lagerfeld for her cream and black chiffon gown from Chanel Haute Couture. Both edgy and feminine, the design featured a pleated and ruffled skirt that led into a bow-bedecked mermaid train.
See more dresses from the 2010 Academy Awards
Jennifer Lopez
We love the way Jennifer Lopez commands the red carpet in dramatic dresses, and her choice this year was no exception. Yet rather than going sexy (down-to-there Versace, anyone?), the diva went spectacular in a full-on princess-shaped icy pink Armani Prive confection with a Swarovski crystal-studded waterfall train.
Charlize Theron
While still incredibly feminine, Charlize Theron's Dior Haute Couture gown was also most daring with its rosette-bedecked bustline. The custom-designed dress combined a curve-hugging lilac column with a wow-worthy train of amethyst satin.
Anna Kendrick
Talk about pretty -- nominee Anna Kendrick selected a pale pink couture gown from Elie Saab that featured beautiful details like hand-draped rosettes and lace edging. The "Up in the Air" star added matching platform sandals and delicate Kwiat diamonds.
Oscars: Top 7 Fashion Trends
Zoe Saldana
"Avatar" beauty Zoe Saldana walked the red carpet in one of the night's most memorable gowns: a purple ombre design from Givenchy Haute Couture that paired a flower-like tulle skirt with a shimmering bodice. We loved the artistic take on traditional feminine flourishes.
Penelope Cruz
On the sultry end of the romantic trend was Best Supporting Actress nominee Penelope Cruz in a shape-draping duchesse satin Donna Karan design. After an awards season of black and black, it was a pleasure to see the "Nine" star in a deep shade of bordeaux.
Oscars: Best Hair and Makeup
Sarah Jessica Parker
We've come to expect the unexpected from Sarah Jessica Parker (and are never disappointed). This year, Parker skipped the frills in favor of a '60s-inspired Chanel Haute Couture column gown topped with elaborate silver embroidery. The shape, the color and the details were simply perfect, as was her stunning mix of jewelry: a stack of Fred Leighton bracelets paired with a spiked crescent ring.
Sandra Bullock
It was Sandra Bullock's night both inside the Kodak Theatre and on the red carpet. Eschewing pink, the Best Actress winner looked luminous in an ethereal silver beaded Marchesa column with a peek-a-boo lace bodice. She accented the stunning design with understated diamond jewelry and a textured minaudiere.
Best Jewelry at the Oscars
Meryl Streep
Nominee Meryl Streep embodied the iconic era of elegance in a strong-shouldered '40s-inspired custom design from Chris March. The "Julie & Julia" lead chose similarly fuss-free accessories including a Swarovski silver crystal mesh clutch and diamond and black onyx Fred Leighton jewels.
For complete fashion and beauty coverage from the Academy Awards, go to InStyle.com now!
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
