Barcelona coach Frank Rijkaard has confirmed that he expects AC Milan target Ronaldinho to leave the Nou Camp at the end of this season.
Brazil forward Ronaldinho is expected to join Italian club AC Milan during the summer transfer window.
The Brazilian's agent has had talks with the former European champions, but Barcelona have yet to agree a fee for the player.
Rijkaard, whose own position is under some doubt after a poor domestic season, told Catalan television channel TV3 that Ronaldinho may feature in Barca's final Spanish league home match against Real Mallorca on May 11 if he recovers from injury.
"Yes, it could be then," said the Dutchman.
"He could yet play in the last game of the season in the Nou Camp. If he is to play again, he has to be fit," added Rijkaard.
When asked whether former Paris St Germain star Ronaldinho would leave in the summer, Rijkaard replied: "You would have to think so.
"I don't want people to forget what he's done for this club. I hope that he leaves with his head held high and that he demonstrates to the world of football just who he is."
Ronaldinho has been sidelined by injuries several times this season, with his latest problem a hamstring complaint which has kept him out since the start of April.
"One must remember everything the way it happened. I did not over-protect him. He is a player that never caused any problems," Rijkaard said, denying suggestions that he had fallen out with the two-time former World Player of the Year.
When asked about his own job, Rijkaard said he was waiting for talks with the Barca board.
"I am very excited and want to complete my task. Then we shall see. The club has always helped me a lot, but we will have to see what is best for everyone," he said.
Barcelona's only hope of winning silverware this season is in the Champions League, with the club taking on Manchester United in the second leg of the semifinals at Old Trafford on Tuesday night.
United held on to draw the first leg 0-0 at the Nou Camp last Wednesday after Cristiano Ronaldo missed an early penalty for the English champions.
"It is a difficult place to go and they have a strong team, but I believe we can qualify. United are a team that will not be afraid. They play like they know and have a strong mentality and a lot of talent," Rijkaard.
"They do not complicate things. They will go forward more than in the Nou Camp and that could give us chances. Defending is not our style. We need to worry only about the way we play."
United may be missing England striker Wayne Rooney and Serbia defender Nemanja Vidic.
Both sat out Monday's training session after suffering injuries during Saturday's 2-1 defeat at Premier League title rivals Chelsea.
Vidic, who missed the first leg because of a stomach problem, lasted just eight minutes at Stamford Bridge before being stretchered off after being accidentally kneed in the face by Chelsea striker Didier Drogba.
Rooney injured his hip before scoring the equalizer -- his 18th goal this season -- and was replaced in the 63rd minute by Cristiano Ronaldo. E-mail to a friend
