After posting a series of disturbing tweets about rape, musician CeeLo Green has returned with a 140-character apology.
The controversy started last weekend after Green pleaded no contest Friday to one felony count of giving a woman the drug Ecstasy at a dinner in 2012.
The woman also accused Green of sexually assaulting her, but prosecutors concluded at an October 2013 hearing there was insufficient evidence for a charge.
CeeLo Green accused of giving woman Ecstasy, but DA declines rape charge
According to Billboard, Green aired his thoughts about the case Sunday on Twitter.
"If someone is passed out they're not even WITH you consciously! so WITH Implies consent," he tweeted in a post that's since been deleted but was preserved by a Twitter user. "Women who have really been raped REMEMBER!!!"
At first, Green deleted those remarks and attempted to offer an explanation.
"Let me 1st praise god for exoneration fairness & freedom! Secondly I sincerely apologize for my comments being taken so far out of context," Green tweeted Monday. "I only intended on a healthy exchange to help heal those who love me from the pain I had already caused from this. Please forgive me, as it was your support that got me thru this to begin with. I'd never condone the harm of any women. Thank you."
CeeLo Green leaving 'The Voice'
Yet those messages, captured by Billboard, were soon gone too as Green appeared to shut down his Twitter account altogether. By Tuesday, the "Crazy" singer had returned, this time keeping his commentary brief:
"I truly and deeply apologize for the comments attributed to me on Twitter. Those comments were idiotic, untrue and not what I believe," he said Tuesday.
That mea culpa arrived just as TBS, which shares a parent company with CNN, canceled Green's new reality show, "The Good Life." An online petition urged the network to end the program after Green's tweets, but a source from TBS told CNN the series wasn't picked up for a second season due to low ratings.
CNN has also reached out to Green for comment.
CNN's Alan Duke, Topher Gauk-Roger and Michael Pearson contributed to this report.
