A 19-year-old man was arrested Tuesday afternoon on charges of eight counts of shooting with intent to kill in the violence following the Oklahoma City Thunder's playoff victory over the Los Angeles Lakers, authorities said.
Rodney Dewon Hill was arrested about 4:30 p.m. (5:30 p.m. ET), Oklahoma City Police Capt. Dexter Nelson said. The investigation will continue as police have "outstanding suspects," he said.
Hill was identified by a "victim/witness" in the shooting, according to an affidavit filed in Oklahoma County District Court by Inspector K. Whitebird.
Eight people were shot Monday night just blocks from the Chesapeake Energy Arena as large crowds were leaving the playoff game between the Lakers and the Thunder, police said.
The Thunder eliminated the Lakers from the playoffs and advanced to the next round.
"We have no reason to believe that this was associated directly with the game," Nelson said. "There has been some speculation, but we don't have any information on that.
"It's too early for us to tell (whether) this was gang-related or not," he added.
As crowds left the arena, Nelson said, "there was some horse-playing going on" and "it was a group of girls that got into a confrontation with a group of guys."
Whitebird's affidavit said three males and a female "were involved in an altercation with several of the victims of the shooting.
"Witnesses also corroborated that there were two separate groups involved in an argument," the affidavit said.
One of the males pulled a gun from his waist and began shooting into the crowd, Whitebird said in the affidavit.
Added Nelson: "Two or three of the people that were injured were just innocent bystanders."
Of the victims, one was in critical condition and seven suffered non-life-threatening injuries, Nelson said.
Some of the seven were admitted for hospitalization, he said.
"We still have interviews to conduct. We know we have witnesses out there that haven't contacted us," Nelson said.
Also, a woman was injured when she was punched and kicked in the crowded streets, authorities said.
The affidavit said the woman is pregnant.
In a statement Tuesday, the Oklahoma City Thunder said team officials were talking with police to determine what happened and whether it could have been prevented.
"We are saddened to hear of the violence following the game last night. It put a damper on what was otherwise an exciting night for Oklahoma City and the Thunder," the statement said.
Thousands of people were in the area because the Thunder beat the Lakers 106-90 to advance to the Western Conference finals.
"Whenever you get about 8,000 people outside of a venue, we are going to be outnumbered," Nelson told CNN affiliate KOCO. "You can't have enough people down here for that."
Several people had been questioned about the shootings, but no arrests had been made as of Tuesday afternoon, KOCO reported.
"We will continue to work closely with law enforcement and the city to review security and crowd control procedures and we stand ready to make any necessary changes to ensure safety," the Thunder said Tuesday.
CNN's Nick Valencia contributed to this report.
