(CNN)  -- India and England tied one of the most extraordinary matches in World Cup cricket history in Bangalore Sunday.
Co-hosts India set England an imposing 339 for victory, but Andrew Strauss' men came close to pulling off a remarkable triumph with the captain leading from the front with an superb innings of 158.
Two runs were needed off the last ball from Munaf Patel, but Graeme Swann could only heave it for a single to leave England on 338 for eight wickets.
"We're happy and devastated at the same time but privileged to play in a game like this," said Strauss after a titanic struggle which ebbed and flowed.
Had England been successful, it would have been the biggest successful run chase in World Cup history, but while Strauss and Ian Bell (69) combined for a third wicket stand of 170, England were in command.
But Zaheer Khan returned to remove Bell, who was suffering from cramp, and Strauss in successive balls.
With Matt Prior going to Zaheer in the next over, India were suddenly favorites until a late flurry from Michael Yardy, Tim Bresnan and Swann.
14 runs were still needed from the last over by Patel, but a six by tailender Ajmal Shahzad lifted England.
Patel, who took two wickets 70, found himself at the heart of the action, having earlier dismissed England opener Kevin Pietersen in unusual fashion.
Pietersen had looked impressive in making 31 in an opening stand of 68 with Strauss and thumped back a Patel delivery, which looked headed for the boundary.
But the medium pacer, taking evasive action, threw out a hand and succeeded in knocking the ball into the air to fall into his grasp for a remarkable caught and bowled.
Pietersen was stunned, but with the exception of the dismissal of Jonathan Trott for 16, India had little to applaud until Zaheer's late wickets insured a thrilling climax.
Earlier, Sachin Tendulkar set yet another record in his glittering career as  became the first man to make five centuries in World Cup competition, moving ahead of compatriot Sourav Ganguly and Australian pair Mark Waugh and Ricky Ponting.
It was his 47th hundred in one-day internationals, added to his 51 in Tests.
He faced 115 balls and hit 10 fours and five sixes in his 120 to delight the packed M. Chinnaswamy Stadium.
He also shared a second-wicket stand of 134 with Gautam Gambhir (51) while Yuvraj Singh smashed a quickfire 58.
James Anderson eventually dismissed Tendulkar with Yardy taking the catch, but England's premier paceman had an afternoon to forget as he finished with one wicket for 91 in his 10 overs, the worst World Cup performance by an England bowler.
But Bresnan, who removed the dangerous Virender Sehwag to end his opening stand of 46 with Tendulkar, took a string of late wickets to end with five wickets for 48.
That put a brake on the Indian batsmen, who had threatened to amass in excess of 350 and take the game out of England's reach.
The build-up to Sunday's game had been marred by violence as fans, desperate for wickets, came into conflict with local police.
The game had originally been scheduled for Eden Gardens in Calcutta, but it failed a ground safety inspection.
The ground in Bangalore had a capacity of 38,000 and tickets could have been sold many times over.
"What is unfortunate is that too few tickets go to the public as a general sale,"  International Cricket Council (ICC) chief executive Haroon Lorgat told AFP.
The tie leaves India ahead of England on run rate in Group B with the top four teams going through to the quarterfinal knockout stage. Holders Australia currently top Group A.
