The Monument fire, which has scorched 40 homes in southern Arizona, has quite an arsenal to use against firefighters.
At 9,300 acres Thursday, the blaze is roaring in the Huachuca Mountains near the Mexican border, just south of Sierra Vista, Arizona. It is only 17% contained.
"This whole part of the country is in extreme drought," said Dale Thompson, a spokesman for fire crews. "Grass will take off like gasoline."
Red-flag warnings indicated that the region was at the mercy of heat, low humidity and wind gusts up to 35 miles per hour.
Evacuations were ordered in some neighborhoods, and other residents were told they may have to leave, local officials said. Portions of a major highway were closed on the edge of the Coronado National Memorial/Coronado National Forest.
Meanwhile, crews battled the massive Wallow fire in eastern Arizona on several fronts Thursday as they dealt with strong winds and low relative humidity.
The raging blaze started last month in eastern Arizona, devouring hundreds of thousands of acres before spilling into New Mexico. It has grown into the largest fire ever in Arizona, according to fire officials.
It had burned 478,016 acres and was 29% contained as of Thursday afternoon, officials said.
The National Weather Service issued a wind advisory for the area Thursday, warning of strong and gusty winds in the afternoon and evening. Humidity levels were at 5 to 12 percent, it said.
The Wallow fire -- centered in a sparsely populated national forest -- is the largest but not the state's most destructive in terms of property. It has destroyed 32 homes and 36 outbuildings, including sheds and barns, compared with the 468,000-acre Rodeo-Chediski fire, which destroyed 465 homes.
On Thursday, firefighters focused on hazard tree removal, structure protection, improving containment lines and conducting mop-up activities, officials said.
Authorities have lifted a nearly two-week-long evacuation order for the 200-plus residents of the community of Nutrioso.
Officials with an interagency team fighting the blaze lifted the evacuation order issued June 2 for the town, allowing those with identification showing that they live there to return Wednesday.
Leighayn Green returned with her husband and their 13-year-old daughter to their undamaged home. They stayed in different communities, at times with friends and once in lodging provided by a stranger.
"There is a kindness being extended back and forth between communities," Green said after she returned home.
CNN's Samuel Gardner III and Phil Gast contributed to this report.
