Sebastian Vettel doesn't like the word "dominance".
That would appear strange given that's exactly what he has created within the world of Formula One.
At the age of 26, Vettel has won four successive drivers' titles and after claiming seven straight successive race victories last weekend, he can even afford to take his foot off the gas with two Grands Prix of the season remaining.
Not that he will though. This is a man who lives to win -- even if he doesn't like the term which goes with his era of success.
"I don't like the word domination because it makes things sound easy," Vettel told reporters.
"If we look back through every single individual race it was very, very hard work.
"We got great results to finish on the podium on days where possibly we shouldn't have.
"It's a long season and you need to make sure that you get to your 100%.
"You can't do that all the time but I think you can get very, very close."
Vettel's win at last weekend's Abu Dhabi Grand Prix brought him level with fellow German Michael Schumacher's record of seven successive race victories which was recorded back in 2004.
With two races left on the calendar, he can match Alberto Ascari's record of nine in a row set in 1952-53 and Schumacher's 2004 feat of 13 in one season.
Such success would cap another phenomenal season for Vettel, who is hoping to improve on his 37 career wins by triumphing in the U.S. and Brazil.
"When I jump into the car, I'm not thinking about what has happened before -- I'm thinking about what is going to happen in the future," he added.
"I'm not completely aware of what I've achieved over the past couple of years. I'm happy not to be aware.
"I love racing and it has been my dream since I was a child -- was a dream to race in Formula One.
"To be this successful, of course I'll take it and I'm very proud. But every race is a new challenge, every year is a new challenge. I'm not lacking in motivation because I know how hard it is deliver."
What is scary for Vettel's rivals is that he has no desire to slow down any time soon.
Schumacher, Juan Manuel Fangio and Alain Prost have all won four drivers' titles but Vettel is the youngest to have reached such a milestone.
Fangio was 45 when he took his fourth title, Prost was 38 and Schumacher was 32 -- and Vettel is already planning his next.
He added: "The next goal is the next race. I'm not trying to look too far ahead or looking back.
"You should always look forward. We had many great moments, a special moment but I believe the biggest moment in my life is yet to come.
"It would be quite sad at the age of 26 to look back and that the greatest moment had happened and have nothing to look forward to."
Red Bull Team Principal Christian Horner says Vettel's "burning desire and great natural talent" separates him from his competitors.
"The hardest thing about being his Team Principal is slowing him down," Horner told CNN after being asked about working with Vettel.
"He pushes himself very hard and is hard on himself, sometimes he needs to be less so. He has a burning desire in him and a great natural talent too.
"The qualities he has -- huge inner belief, determination, a fantastic natural feel for the car and beyond all that he's a really, really nice guy.
"That's why he's so popular within the team. He wears his heart on his sleeve."
