A woman who allegedly took her daughter in violation of a court ruling and then went on the run for a decade has turned herself in, according to U.S. marshals in New Hampshire.
The whereabouts of the woman's now-18-year-old daughter remains unknown, authorities say.
Featured on CNN's "The Hunt" in August, Genevieve Kelley was wanted by law enforcement since November 2004, accused of noncustodial kidnapping and unlawful flight to avoid persecution.
Kelley, 50, along with her husband, Scott Kelley, 49, fled New Hampshire with her daughter, Mary Nunes, when the child was 8. At the time, the child's father, Mark Nunes, had full custody rights because of allegations of mistreatment, according to the Marshals Service.
Marshals were involved in efforts spanning the United States, Canada and Central and South America to locate Mary Nunes and Genevieve and Scott Kelley.
Genevieve Kelley was featured as the U.S. Marshals Service "Fugitive of the Week" in New Hampshire, coinciding with the nationally televised story of Mary Nunes and her kidnappers aired on "The Hunt," which is hosted by John Walsh.
See more on Kelley from CNN's 'The Hunt'
After Genevieve Kelley surrendered Monday, U.S. Marshal David Cargill Jr., "I am happy that (she) is in custody and will face justice for these charges, but we will all be the happiest, when we know Mary Nunes is safe."
Scott Kelley is considered a fugitive and is being sought, the Marshals Service said in a news release.
Cargill credited the media and investigators for providing the "push needed to get Genevieve Kelley to surrender."
In March, Genevieve Kelley informed the New Hampshire prosecutor through her attorney that she wanted to negotiate her surrender.
Kelley is in the custody of the Coos County Sheriff's Office and has made an initial court appearance.
Breaks in other 'Hunt' cases
Kelley's arrest came the same day authorities in Texas announced that in an unrelated case, remains found in September were confirmed to be those of another fugitive, Kevin Patrick Stoeser, also featured on CNN's "The Hunt."
Stoeser, a U.S. soldier who was dishonorably discharged, pleaded guilty in 2003 to child sexual assault and child pornography charges and was sentenced to 13 years behind bars.
Authorities said Monday it's unclear when or how he died. No other remains were found, they said.
Remains of another suspect featured on the "The Hunt" were also found earlier this year, and another suspect who was profiled on the show was killed in a gun battle with authorities.
In August, the remains of Shane Miller were found in California. Miller was the prime suspect in the deaths of his wife and two young daughters.
In July, a phone call to authorities came during an airing of "The Hunt" that led them to Charles Mozdir, a suspected sex offender. He died in a shootout in New York City as police closed in on him.
