(CNN)  -- South Africa inflicted the first home series defeat on Australia in almost 16 years as they wrapped up a nine-wicket win over the world's number one ranked Test nation in Melbourne on Tuesday.
South African captain Graeme Smith led from the front with 75 as his team wrapped up victory.
Captain Graeme Smith hit a fluent 75 as his side successfully passed a modest victory target of 183 on the final day at the MCG to take an unassailable 2-0 lead.
It was the South African's first-ever Test series triumph in Australia and victory in the third and final match in Sydney will see them leapfrog the home side at the top of the global rankings.
Hashim Amla (30 not out) scored the winning runs shortly after lunch as South Africa became the first team to overcome Australia at home since the West Indies in 1992-93.
South Africa were never under any pressure in their run chase and did not lose a wicket until just before lunch when the inspirational Smith was trapped leg before wicket by Nathan Hauritz.
Smith had dominated a 121-run opening stand with Neil McKenzie, hitting 10 boundaries.
McKenzie struggled to a half century and survived strong lbw shouts from Brett Lee, who was bowling despite an injured foot that will keep him out of the Sydney Test.
South Africa's victory was set up by a brilliant maiden Test century from JP Duminy, who shared a stunning 180-run ninth wicket partnership with pace bowler Dale Steyn.
It gave the tourists a priceless 65-run lead on first innings before man of the match Steyn worked his magic with the ball as Australia were bowled out on the fourth day for 247 in their second innings.
The pugnacious Smith was virtually lost for words in his victory speech.
"It has been such a special moment for all of us, it has been an incredible team effort," he said.
"I have been smiling non-stop since we hit the winning runs.
"To be 2-0 up after this game was something we only dreamt of."
South Africa won the first Test in Perth from an unlikely position, chasing 414 for victory for the loss of only four wickets.
