Roger Federer has endured a 2013 which has seen him slip out of the world's top four for the first time in a decade.
But the 17-time grand slam champion will have a chance to end his season on a high after qualifying for the ATP World Tour Finals in London, a city where he has enjoyed a multitude of triumphs.
The Swiss maestro has won a record equaling seven singles titles at Wimbledon, staged in the British capital, while he has also won the season-ending championships twice since it was moved to London's O2 Arena in 2009.
A second round win over South Africa's Kevin Anderson at the Paris Masters ensured current world No. 7 Federer would line up at the showpiece World Tour Finals, which he has won on a record six occasions.
On Thursday, Federer's fellow Swiss Stanislas Wawrinka and Frenchman Richard Gasquet completed the eight-man field in London.
"[It's] the absolute pinnacle of our sport," Federer, who will equal Ivan Lendl's record of 12 consecutive Tour Finals appearances, told the ATP website before booking his place in London.
"You want to be able to showcase your talents against the best, with the biggest rivalries, in one of the coolest arenas in the world in front of amazing fans.
"For me it's always been an honor to play there and I look forward to returning this year."
The news of Federer's qualification will delight his British fans, who have grown accustomed to seeing him dominate the grass courts of the All England Club and the electric blue surface at the O2 Arena.
"As a six-time champion Roger stands alone as the most decorated player in the history of the ATP World Tour Finals," said tournament director Andre Silva.
"He is enormously popular here in London, where he has also won seven Wimbledon titles, and we're delighted to welcome him back to the O2."
World No. 1 Rafael Nadal heads the list of players set to feature in the competition, with six-time grand slam champion Novak Djokovic also London bound.
Reigning Wimbledon champion Andy Murray misses out after failing to recover from a back injury in time to play, but David Ferrer, Juan Martin del Potro and Tomas Berdych will take part.
Wawrinka and Gasquet advanced when Milos Raonic lost to Tomas Berdych, ending the Canadian's slim hopes. Wawrinka will be the lone debutant in London.
