With less than a month until Election Day, Sen. Mary Landrieu is changing her reelection campaign's leadership.
The Louisiana Democrat shook up her campaign staff, bringing in a new campaign manager and calling up former and current Senate staffers to help her beat back challenges from two Republicans in the state's jungle primary-style election, the New Orleans Times-Picayune first reported Wednesday. The changes come as Landrieu faces slimming odds that she will win 50% of votes to avoid a runoff election.
Ryan Berni, who ran her brother New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu's reelection campaign earlier this year, is now leading the reelection bid, and Landrieu also rang her former chief of staff Norma Jane Sabiston to advise the campaign.
Current campaign manager Adam Sullivan will stay on as a senior adviser to the campaign. Landrieu campaign spokesman Fabien Levy would not say why specifically Sullivan was replaced.
"As Senator Landrieu has done in all of her races, she is bringing on some of her long-time and trusted advisers to assist during the last month of the race to lead us to victory on November 4.," Landrieu campaign spokesman Fabien Levy told CNN in an email.
Senator reimburses federal government more than $30,000 in travel
Two Landrieu Senate staffers, her state director and Washington communications director, are also taking leaves of absence to bolster their boss's campaign.
Landrieu has faced an uphill climb in her reelection bid this year and the challenge for her new staff will be to help Landrieu crack the 50% threshold needed to avoid a December runoff. That seems unlikely according to the latest CNN/ORC poll, that showed her support stood at 43%, with Rep. Bill Cassidy coming in a close second with 40%.
A runoff election between the two could favor Cassidy, who would be able to regain votes lost to the third candidate, tea party Republican Rob Maness.
That election would be close though, with the CNN/ORC poll giving Cassidy just a 3-point lead in an eventual runoff with the incumbent Senator.
Congressman: Reid runs the Senate 'like a plantation'
