Chris Colfer told Piers Morgan that his mother was driving him home from his final audition when he got the call saying he'd landed the role of Kurt Hummel in "Glee." When Morgan asked the actor if he realized that the Fox series would become such a phenomenon, Colfer replied, "Absolutely not. And had I had any notion that it would become what it was, I would've been insane. Who could've predicted all of this?"
The "Glee" overnight sensation is a guest on Friday's "Piers Morgan Tonight."
"We were just passing Santa Monica Pier," Colfer continued. "And the phone rang and she answered it. And then she just looked at me with that look, and I knew I had it."
Colfer, whose 21st birthday is Friday, told Morgan that at the time he had been in college for a grand total of two weeks and was working in a dry cleaner at minimum wage. Morgan pointed out the recent barrage of magazines Colfer has graced: Cover of "Entertainment Weekly," two copies of "The Hollywood Reporter" and a spot on "Time" magazine's list of Most Influential People.
"It's so surreal," Colfer told the CNN host. "That, whenever I have a minute to myself and I stop and think about it, I get so lost in this cloud nine world that it -- it's so hard to come back down from it."
When Morgan asked Colfer when he realized his life was never going to be the same, the actor said it was "the first time I was recognized, or maybe it was the first time that I drove up to Paramount Studios and had a place for my car to go." Colfer recalled how special it was to cruise through the iconic studio gates.
When Morgan asked Colfer what celebrity icons he looked up to as a kid, the actor said that while he mostly inspired himself along the way and didn't latch on to heroes, "everyone wants to be Lady Gaga at one point or the other."
When Morgan argued that he has never wanted to be Lady Gaga, Colfer countered, "Now you're lying. Everyone wants to be Lady Gaga."
Colfer admitted that he's always wanted to be Oprah Winfrey, proclaiming, "Who wouldn't want to be Oprah Winfrey, are you kidding? If you don't want to be Oprah Winfrey, there's something wrong with you."
When Morgan pointed out that Colfer and his "Glee" character, Kurt, are looked up to by kids who are being bullied, the actor opened up about the bullying he endured as a child. When Morgan asked Colfer if his Golden Globe win was "this wonderful moment of payback," Colfer joked, "Now, there's a diplomatic answer that I could give, but... ."
When Morgan asked for a straight answer, Colfer responded, "Yes! Oh, God, yes! Yes! And those individuals, I just -- it's almost like you want to say, 'Suck it' to them, like, right there."
The bullying didn't stop with "Glee," as Colfer admitted that he stopped Googling himself altogether as of September 2009 after reading hurtful, often homophobic statements that he referred to as "high school all over again."
Morgan asked Colfer, who attended the White House Correspondents' Dinner on April 30, what happened when he met right-wing politicians at the dinner who vote against gay rights.
"Oh, everyone loves 'Glee,'" exclaimed Colfer. "Everyone loves 'Glee.' Everyone loves me in 'Glee,' and it's hysterical."
"And you know that," said Morgan. "You quietly know they're all voting against gay rights."
Colfer told Morgan that while he is aware that many of the political leaders who request photo-ops with him do vote against gay rights, he gladly poses for pictures with them regardless, in the hopes that the next time a gay-related issue comes along, they don't say, "No, that gay kid from 'Glee' didn't give me a picture, I'm going to vote no. Take that."
"When people believe so strongly against you," stated Colfer, "yet they want proof that they met you -- it's kind of awesome."
Watch Piers Morgan Tonight weeknights 9 p.m. ET. For the latest from Piers Morgan click here.
