In his Oscar-nominated role as Vincent Mancini in The Godfather: Part III, Andy Garcia played a ruthless, murderous mob boss with a violent temper.
But this week the Hollywood star is doing his shooting on the golf course. And the Corleone family will have to accept that every score he brings in at the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am will go to charity.
The Godfather, it appears, has gone legit.
"I love to golf," Garcia told CNN. "I get out once a week and play with guys like Joe Pesci, Jack Nicholson and George Lopez. I just turn up and play with whoever's waiting to go. It's a great way of meeting people and being sociable."
The 54-year-old actor will be joining the likes of Bill Murray, Kevin Costner and Ray Romano at the tournament in California this week, which sees celebrities paired with professional golfers in the name of charity.
Garcia has been a regular at the PGA Tour event since 1996, and the 11-handicapper wouldn't miss it.
"The Gods shine on that tournament. It's the absolute pinnacle of what you can experience as an amateur golfer," Garcia said.
"We play three courses, Spyglass, Monterey Peninsula and Pebble Beach. They all run along the ocean and the scenery is extraordinary. Then there's the atmosphere, which is pretty unique to golf.
"There's also a lot of amazing work done for charity. On Wednesday we have a five-hole scramble and whatever we win goes to the charity of our choice. Bill (Murray) and I won it one year."
The tournament has raised over $85 million for the Monterey Peninsula Foundation since it was launched by Hollywood legend Bob Hope in 1937 -- with the funds distributed as grants to non-profit organizations across America.
For Garcia, the opportunity to play alongside the world's best golfers is considered an honor and a privilege. But that Godfather ambition still burns beneath the surface.
"Of course you want to be competitive," he said. "Paul Stankowski and I won the tournament back in 1997 (best combined Pro-Am total). I think the golfing Gods touched us that year.
"It's also a great place to pick up tips. You're hitting balls out of a practice bunker and you've got all these guys around you who can help you out. You're on the tee and suddenly Phil Mickelson is hitting a drive right next to you."
Garcia's love affair with golf began in his childhood, inspired by the likes of Gary Player, Arnold Palmer and Lee Trevino. He remembers jumping the fence to steal a few holes in while the sprinklers were still running at a course near his Florida home.
But the Cuban-born actor turned his attentions to other sports at high school, and it wasn't until his early 30s that he returned to give the game his full attention.
"I'm a member at Lakeside Golf Club in Burbank now, the course where Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Bob Hope and guys like that used to play," he said.
"I try to play once a week. But when the days get lighter I'll sometimes get out for nine holes in the evenings too. I'd love to play more if I had the time. I'm still pretty inconsistent. One day I play well, the next I don't."
Garcia's film credits include The Untouchables, When a Man Loves a Woman and Ocean's 11, and he's made his name in Hollywood as one of the coolest cats in the business.
But even A-List Hollywood superstars get nervous on the golf course.
"The acting experience helps you focus, and I'm used to the crowds, but I still get those jitters on the first tee at Pebble Beach," he said.
"I don't command a game of golf like I do a scene in a movie."
