Two big piles of cash, one at a grave site and another at a home, have been recovered by Pittsburgh police and are believed to be part of the $2 million an armored truck driver allegedly stole after killing his partner.
Kenneth Konias Jr. remains on the run after he allegedly shot Michael Haines in the head last month, according to a law enforcement source familiar with the investigation who declined to be named.
About $24,000 was found at Konias' grandmother's grave site on Wednesday, the source said. More than $200,000 was found at his home Tuesday.
Konias is believed to be in possession of at least three handguns and is thought to be within the United States, said Pittsburgh Police Commander Thomas Stangrecki.
An FBI task force is participating in the hunt, employing social media to tap into a wider audience and gather information.
According to the criminal complaint, a witness heard a gunshot coming from an armored truck carrying deposits around 1 p.m. ET on February 28. Surveillance video shows the vehicle in the parking lot where the shot was overheard.
The truck was later discovered under a Pittsburgh bridge by the company's employees and two police detectives. Haines was found dead inside, authorities said.
Authorities say Konias called a friend and his mother in the minutes after the shooting.
"I f***ed up," Konias told his friend, according to the criminal complaint. "My life is over."
Pressed to explain, Konias admitted he had killed someone, according to the complaint. CNN can not independently verify the account.
His mother, Renee Konias, told police that she had received a "strange call" from her son, less than an hour after the shooting, asking to speak to his father, but she informed him that he would have to call the house to reach him.
Police said that when his mother attempted to call him back, Konias answered once and hung up abruptly and then did not answer at all.
His cell phone was later recovered by police.
According to the complaint, Konias' father said he saw his son drop off a blood-spattered work jacket at his home.
Konias is accused of criminal homicide, theft of the victim's gun and robbery of the cash inside the armored vehicle.
The armored truck company, Garda Cash Logistics, is offering a reward of up to $100,000 for any information leading to the arrest and conviction of Konias.
He was last seen driving a champagne-colored 2006 Ford Explorer with Pennsylvania license plate GZW-4572.
Police say the man should be considered armed and dangerous and are asking anyone with information to call the Pittsburgh Homicide Office at 412-323-7161 or to call 911.
CNN's Mary Snow contributed to this report
