Police in British Columbia say a man wanted for allegedly recording himself reaching speeds of at least 186 mph on his motorcycle and posting the video on YouTube has been arrested.
Randy George Scott, 25, walked into the Kelowna, British Columbia, police department Tuesday evening, identified himself, and said there was a warrant for his arrest.
"The man allegedly responsible for the infamous YouTube video "Victoria Highway Run 299km" is in custody," Kelowna police said in a statement.
Kelowna is about six hours from Saanich, the town where the incident took place.
British Columbia police ID biker who posted video of 186-mph ride
On July 10, charges were filed against Scott after receiving tips from the public identifying him as the motorcycle rider in the video.
The Saanich Police Department on Vancouver Island said the incident took place on April 6 on a busy stretch of the Trans-Canada Highway.
Video of the ride quickly went viral across the Internet, but Scott was nowhere to be found. In the video, a motorcyclist is seen reaching a speed of 299 kilometers per hour (186 mph) weaving between cars, but authorities think his actual speed may have been even faster. The speedometer tops out at 299 kph.
"You can hear him accelerating even when it says 299 kph," Saanich Police Sgt. Dean Jantzen told CNN.
The posted speed limit is 80 kph (50 mph).
Jantzen said motorcyclists traveling at dangerously excessive speeds are not typical in that part of Saanich, which is more urban.
Saanich police said Scott, if convicted of dangerous operation of a motor vehicle, could be sentenced up to five years in jail.
Police in Kelowna aren't sure why Scott chose their town as the place to surrender, but said they are working with Saanich police investigators on the case. Since Scott surrendered in the same province where he was wanted, the extradition process is less complex, according to Royal Canadian Mounted Police Constable Kris Clark.
Scott remains in Kelowna police custody and was scheduled to appear in court Wednesday.
The full video can be seen at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIUTXIsJz3o
More from CNN Justice:
Justice Department investigating Pennsylvania voter ID law
Singer charged with murder in botched cosmetic procedure
Gun background checks in Colorado spike after shooting
Killer of Jennifer Hudson relatives gets three life sentences without parole
