(CNN Student News) -- August 21, 2013
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What's a better source of information about a scientific study: a news report or the original scientific paper? What are the pros and cons of each?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects from today's show:
1. foreign aid
2. Pakistan
3. electrical charge
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. The United States is considering cutting aid to what North African country?
2. In what U.S. state is the Beaver Creek wildfire threatening homes?
3. Members of what undefeated 1972 NFL team visited the White House on Tuesday?
Discussion Questions:
1. In your opinion, what factors should the U.S. consider when deciding whether to offer aid to another country?
2. How might fire officials prioritize where and how to combat a widespread wildfire?
3. What roles do spiders play in their environment? Why might scientists want to study spider webs and how spiders catch their prey?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
Egypt
North America
Washington, D.C.; Idaho
Asia
Pakistan
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
