What do Conan O'Brien, Etsy.com and the Smurfs all have in common?
They are part of the hottest craft trends for 2011, according to organizations like craftster.org, that track the $29.2 billion dollar craft and hobby industry in the U.S.
An increase in handmade technology accessories and vintage patterns for clothes are popular, too, as art and craft enthusiasts find new ways to develop their creative talents.
Hot trend: Conan
Conan O'Brien is more than a late night talk show host, these days. He's credited with exposing a new and younger audience to artwork.
Fans of the comedian have been inspired to create illustrations, paintings, mixed media, digital art and edibles that look like the late night star - and this work is sometimes showcased on his TBS television show and on his website.
"While we had never actively solicited artwork or crafts from fans, we were seeing so much incredible stuff posted across the web, and were inspired to build 'Coco MoCA - The Museum Of Conan Art' -- an internet gallery to celebrate these fantastic artists' talent," said John A. Wooden, General Manager and Executive Producer of Team Coco Digital.
Wooden says the team has been pleased with the new museum of art and routinely display pieces of  its work on Conan's TV show.
Hot trend: Etsy.com
Etsy.com is popular, as it is a money making venue for artists and crafters.
Etsy is a U.S.-based website that describes itself as an "online crafts fair." But unlike your local art fair show, Etsy is a growing business where its sellers made a combined $314.3 million last year in gross merchandise sales and more than $146 million so far, this year. The site has grown from about 200,000 active sellers in 2008 to 800,000 sellers, today, in 150 countries around the world.
"There is an added value for the buyer that comes from having a real interaction with the real human being that created each handmade object," said Etsy spokesperson, Adam Brown. "You won't find this at a shopping mall."
Husband and wife team, Stephen and Betsy Carr, of Asheville, North Carolina, said they quit their day jobs to pursue their dream job of selling handmade jewelry on Etsy and couldn't be happier.
"We're creative people and it feels incredibly satisfying to have made this creative life for ourselves," said Betsy.
Etsy makes money by charging sellers a listing fee of 20 cents for each item and receives 3.5% commission on the price of each sale. It is free to become a member and sell items on Etsy.
Hot trend: Pop culture
Pop culture is always popular in the arts and crafts world.
Indie crafters are expected to be influenced by 2011 film releases like "The Smurfs," and "Red Riding Hood" and fan favorites "Twilight" and Harry Potter. This, according to data and trends collected from the 1.3 million visitors a month who visit the craftster.org website.
Consumers who can't get enough of these pop culture icons have plenty of artistic options to choose from this year, both online and at art and craft shows.
"Fantasy of any sort is perfect for inspiration and getting creative juices flowing," said Talia Roselli, a spokesperson for Craftster.org. "When crafters can't find products in the marketplace that represent their love for their favorite characters and fantasy film narratives, they make them."
Hot trend: Modern technology
Blending traditional crafts with modern technology is "hot," in 2011.
Crafters will be inspired throughout the year, according to Roselli, to make cases for items like smartphones, iPads and Kindles, to name a few.
"We attribute this demand for unique tech accessories in large part to the highly personalized experience of using today's mobile technology," said Roselli. "People want their devices to have a look and feel that reflects their personality."
Rich and Brenna Neeley of Orange County, California, are among the artists on Etsy.com that cater to this niche of craft items. They selliPhone and iPod chargers that look like new and vintage books.
Brenna says her personal iPhone charger is a small book of poems that has sentimental value for her.
"Everytime I plug in my device, it makes me smile," said Brenna. "It's more about how it makes me feel than what it does, the charging function is just a necessity of life these days."
Hot trend: Fashion
In fashion, pleating, smocking and detailed embellishments in a style that mixes the 1940s and 1970s will be trendy for crafters throughout 2011.
As fashion designers experiment with advanced techniques, material combinations, and modern finishes, they're drawing more and more inspiration from vintage patterns and designs, said Roselli.
"It's a beautiful blend of old and new that we're seeing," noted Roselli.
Color choices reflect this mix of old and new, too.
Roselli says what's trending with indie clothes makers is an aged natural color like a dusty brown or grey, complemented by a bold, rich color like honeysuckle, plum, or yellow to brighten and modernize a garment or accessory.
