New season, new manager same free scoring Barcelona who routed Levante 7-0 in their La Liga season opener Sunday.
Gerardo Martino's first competitive game could hardly have gone better, a record 6-0 ahead at the break in the Nou Camp, with Pedro adding his second before the final whistle.
New signing Neymar also made his Spanish league debut as a second half substitute, having been left on the bench by Martino after his midweek international exertions.
"We need to continue like this, we know we have just started and the season is very long. If we keep going like this then we can achieve great things," goal scoring hero Pedro told Barcelona TV.
Argentine Martino, replacing the cancer-stricken Tito Vilanova at Barca, will certainly be hoping for repeat performances in their domestic title defense.
Talisman Lionel Messi ran the show in the first half, scoring twice and setting up a number of other goal scoring opportunities.
Alexis Sanchez opened their account after fine work from Manchester United target Cesc Fabregas before Messi grabbed his first of the new season.
Analysis: Martino who? Is El Tata the man for Barca?
Messi then set up the third for Dani Alves before his through ball allowed Pedro to open his account.
His second of the night came from the penalty spot and the first half scoring spree was completed by midfielder Xavi after excellent work from Fabregas.
Brazil international star Neymar came off the bench just after the hour mark to test his legs for his new club and came close to marking his debut with a goal before being booked late on.
"We put a lot of emphasis on pressing and we managed to sustain it for the majority of the match," said a delighted Martino.
Barcelona's arch rivals Real Madrid also began their campaign under new boss Carlo Ancelotti with a win, but were made to fight hard by Real Betis in the Bernabeu.
Jorge Molina put the visitors ahead with a well taken opener, but Karim Benzema canceled it out in the 26th minute.
Cristiano Ronaldo hit the crossbar with a shot in the second half and wasted some good scoring opportunities before new signing Isco headed in an 86th minute winner from Marcelo's cross.
In the Bundesliga, Borussia Dortmund went top on goal difference with a 2-1 win over Eintracht Braunschweig.
Midfielders Marco Reus and Jonas Hofmann made the breakthrough with 75th and 85th minute goals, the second from the penalty spot.
The visitors grabbed one back when a corner deflected in off Borussia's star striker Robert Lewandowski.
Dortmund head five teams, including champions Bayern Munich, who have won both their opening two games in Germany.
Big spending Monaco have made a similarly fine start in France's Ligue 1 with a perfect record after two games.
They thrashed Montpellier 4-1 with Emmanuel Riviere grabbing a hat-trick as they moved alongside Lyon, Saint-Etienne and Marseille on to six points.
"At the moment, it's perfect, two matches, six points," said manager Claudo Ranieri.
