NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell began with an apology.
It was for his handling of the scandal surrounding Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice, who has been indefinitely suspended following the release of a video that shows him knocking out his future wife with a punch.
"I didn't get it right. Simply put, we have to do better," Goodell said during a news conference in Manhattan on Friday.
But what does that mean? And how will the NFL carry that out?
Here are five takeaways from Goodell's news conference:
1. Never considered resigning
Goodell and the NFL have been criticized  and scrutinized over the handling of the Rice case by everybody from women's rights groups to sponsors to the Obama administration.
In days leading up to the news conference, calls mounted for the commissioner to step down.
Goodell said it was something he never considered.
"I am focused on doing my job. I understand when people are critical of my performance, but we have work to do. I am proud of the opportunity we have to make a difference and do the right thing," he said.
"We've acknowledged that we need to make changes and now we have to get those changes going."
2. Education for players, staff
Goodell announced changes to the NFL's personal conduct policy, saying all players and staff would be required to undergo training and education about how to prevent domestic violence and sexual assault.
The classes are expected to begin within the next month, he said.
However, Goodell provided little detail about the education and training classes other than to say the league would include experts.
3. Conduct committee
One of the chief steps being taken to address the league's handling of domestic violence and sexual abuses cases is the creation of a committee to review the NFL's personal conduct policy.
Goodell said he hoped to have the committee in place by the time the Super Bowl is played on February 2, but he did not provide a timeline for the committee to make changes to the policy.
The committee will include input from the NFL Players Association and experts in the prevention of domestic abuse and sexual assault. Goodell did not say whether it would include law enforcement officials or mental health care professionals.
4. What Rice said
Much of the criticism surrounding the Rice case has to do with how Goodell and the league handled the case after learning in February that the running back had knocked out his then-fiancee, Janay Palmer, in an Atlantic City, New Jersey, elevator and dragged her out.
Goodell suspended Rice without pay and fined him an additional game check for "conduct detrimental to the NFL."
Since the video showing Rice punch Palmer was made public this month, Rice has since been indefinitely suspended. Goodell said he had not seen the video prior to its release by TMZ.
During the news conference, Goodell told reporters the account provided by Rice was different than what was depicted in the video.
"I'm telling you right now it's inconsistent with what he told us," he said.
But Goodell declined to comment further on what the player told him, citing an ongoing appeal of Rice's suspension.
5. Reevaluating how NFL gathers information
When asked why the league did not get a copy of the videotape during its initial investigation into the Rice case earlier this year, Goodell said the league's security department asked for it several times.
"We got it with one phone call," the TMZ reporter told him, adding that the NFL has an entire department to investigate conduct issues.
Goodell did not answer, saying only he would re-evaluate how the NFL gathers information.
