Massachusetts child welfare authorities have found no evidence of neglect or abuse connected with a 10-year-old Brockton rapper who does adult-themed music videos.
Local police filed a complaint in February against the child's father, prompting an investigation that was terminated Thursday, Department of Children and Families spokeswoman Cayenne Isaksen told CNN.
The child, Luie Rivera Jr., whose stage name is "Lil Poopy," is seen in videos posted online, including on YouTube, smacking a woman's backside, flashing wads of cash, riding in a Ferrari, dancing with women in sexually suggestive positions and rapping about how "coke is not a bad word."
Lil Poopy is a member of the group Coke Boys, led by internationally known Moroccan-born rapper French Montana. He has also performed alongside hip hop moguls such as P. Diddy.
Joseph Krowski Jr., Rivera's attorney, said the family is "happy and relieved it's over, but disappointed that it ever got this far."
"I, as a lawyer, didn't understand how it could go to a Department of Child and Families 51 A investigation," he told CNN, referring to the section of state law that covers such cases. "Those investigations are reserved for situations where there's an imminent threat of severe abuse to a child."
According to Isaksen, anyone can file a 51 A report, which is an allegation of child abuse and/or neglect; in fact, she told CNN the agency encourages the public to do so. But it's the department's responsibility to determine whether the report is valid, Isaksen said.
Krowski said he believes a racially motivated double standard was applied to his client, who he said turned 10 in February, and his family, which is of Puerto Rican descent.
"You can find Hollywood, white actors depicted in much more racy films. They receive praise and acclaim," he said. "Then you look at a video that has brown-color skin and they're engaged in rap music and that invites an investigation."
Isaksen declined to comment on whether Rivera's race fueled the investigation.
According to Krowski, the investigation was based on small "snippets" of Rivera's music. He said his client also raps about more age-appropriate topics, like sports and school.
Despite the investigation, which Krowski called "offensive," the amount of media exposure has been "a bonus" to Rivera's budding career as a rapper. Krowski said his client has received an outpouring of offers to do shows and go on tour.
Still, Krowski said the Rivera family "would have rather done it the other way."
