Tennis star Andy Murray is used to serving on a daily basis -- but he's taken it in a whole new direction with his latest venture.
The two-time grand slam winner has launched a five-star hotel just minutes from where he grew up in Dunblane, Scotland.
Set close to where Murray learned his trade on the local courts, the 15-bedroom Cromlix -- set in 34-acres of lush Scottish countryside -- is his new venture.
And while he may not be bringing you the wine list or be on hand to suggest the best local whisky, Murray is involved on a regular basis in making sure it all runs smoothly.
The seed of interest in the hotel was planted in Murray's mind after his older brother Jamie married his Colombian wife Alejandra Gutierrez at the Cromlix in 2010.
"It wasn't something I'd thought about but I came here for my brother's wedding and about six months to a year later we were told that the hotel was going out of business," Murray told CNN's Open Court.
"The property was for sale and it's five minutes from my house -- I thought it would be a nice thing to do."
Under Murray's stewardship the hotel has undergone a rapid transformation, with the old Victorian mansion restored in fine style.
But a visit to the hotel doesn't come cheap -- a stay in one of the suites during the Scottish summer will cost around $1,000 a night, while a small double room will set you back $425 a night.
Murray is not the only tennis player to have invested in the hotel industry.
Spain's former world No.1 Juan Carlos Ferrero bought a 19th-century country house in the Sierra Mariola mountains south of Valencia and turned it into a delightful 12-suite hotel in 2007.
Compatriot Rafael Nadal has also reportedly invested $13.17 million into two hotels he bought in Cozumel, Mexico.
But for Murray, Cromlix's importance is that it's rooted in the history and community of Dunblane -- a small town proud of his tennis exploits.
"It's nice that a lot of the time when I do come back to the various tennis courts and centers they have around here, that the courts are busy and a lot more kids playing tennis. I'm happy about that," the 27-year-old says.
"It's nice because when we were growing up, the tennis courts around this area never got used, they were empty all of the time.
"In some ways for us it was good because there was always tennis courts for us, but it seemed like a shame they were empty most of the year."
When he steps off the global tennis tour for the final time, Dunblane is also a place he wants to experience more of.
"I hope to spend a lot more time here when I finish playing because I don't get the chance to come to Scotland just now," he adds.
"This will definitely make me want to come up to Scotland a lot more and spend time with my family and be around the hotel.
"I'm not sure exactly what my exact role or involvement will be when I am done but I hope it's still going well at that stage."
Murray's long-term partner Kim Sears has also played a key role in defining the decor of the hotel.
The pair chose the names of the rooms -- they went for famous Scots such as the inventor of penicillin Alexander Fleming, actor Sean Connery and former Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson.
"It was hard to choose the names," confesses Murray.
"You don't want to leave anybody out but I thought it would be a nice fun thing to do and luckily I've got to meet some of the people that the suites are named after. They are great Scottish people.
"I might invite them to stay if I bump into them -- but they are pretty busy people."
If they do make the trip to the hotel, there is plenty to keep them entertained.
Murray has installed tennis courts which are resplendent in the purple and green colors of Wimbledon -- where he will begin the defense of his title next week.
The property has its own loch, which is stocked full of trout for keen fishermen, while there is also the opportunity to take part in some falconry.
For now, though, Murray must put all thoughts of silver service to the back of his mind as he returns to the grass courts of London's SW19, where he also won the Olympic gold medal in 2012.
Last year he claimed the Wimbledon crown with a straight sets win over Novak Djokovic -- becoming the first British man to secure a victory on home soil in 77 years.
Until last week, Murray had won 19 consecutive matches on grass before suffering a shock defeat at Queen's Club by 35-year-old Czech Radek Stepanek.
That loss came just days after he appointed former Wimbledon women's champion Amelie Mauresmo as his new coach.
France's ex-world No. 1 will be in his box alongside his mother Judy when Murray opens the grand slam for the very first time.
"It will be special," he says.
"It's something a lot of past champions have spoken about -- going back as the winners of the men's title the previous year.
"They open the Centre Court on the Monday so I'm sure there will be a lot of pressure and a lot of nerves -- but I'm looking forward to it."
