Get ready to meet the new classics of children's literature.
Children's and young adult books are sporting some shiny new seals after the American Library Association announced its most esteemed literary prizes Monday, including the Newbery and Caldecott medals.
The Caldecott Medal went to "Locomotive," written and illustrated by Brian Floca. The book follows family and crew traveling together on America's new transcontinental railroad in the summer of 1869.
The Newbery Medal was awarded to "Flora & Ulysses: The Illuminated Adventures," written by Kate DiCamillo, who also wrote "Because of Winn-Dixie" and "The Tale of Despereaux," and illustrated by K.G. Campbell. It's the story of a young comic book enthusiast and cynic, Flora, and a superhero squirrel named Ulysses who helps Flora against her greatest enemy.
The awards announced Monday recognize children's and young adult authors, illustrators and media producers. The winning list guides parents, teachers and libraries, and the books typically remain in print and on store and library shelves for years to come.
The ALA Youth Media Awards were announced during the organization's winter meeting in Philadelphia and selected by a national judging committee of librarians and children's literature experts.
Here's the list of winners:
John Newbery Medal for "most outstanding contribution to children's literature"
"Flora & Ulysses: The Illuminated Adventures," written by Kate DiCamillo, illustrated by K.G. Campbell
Honor books
"Doll Bones," written by Holly Black
"The Year of Billy Miller," written by Kevin Henkes
"One Came Home," written by Amy Timberlake
"Paperboy," written by Vince Vawter
Randolph Caldecott Medal for the "most distinguished American picture book for children"
"Locomotive," illustrated and written by Brian Floca
Honor books
"Journey," written and illustrated by Aaron Becker
"Flora and the Flamingo," written and illustrated by Molly Idle
"Mr. Wuffles!" written and illustrated by David Wiesner
Coretta Scott King awards for an African-American author and illustrator
Author award: "P.S. Be Eleven," written by Rita Williams-Garcia
Illustrator award: "Knock Knock: My Dad's Dream for Me," illustrated by Bryan Collier and written by Daniel Beaty
Honor books
Author: "March: Book One," written by John Lewis and Andrew Aydin and illustrated by Nate Powell
Author: "Darius & Twig," written by Walter Dean Myers
Author: "Words with Wings," written by Nikki Grimes
Illustrator: "Nelson Mandela," written by Kadir Nelson
Coretta Scott King/John Steptoe New Talent Award
Theodore Taylor III for his illustrations for "When the Beat was Born: DJ Kool Herc and the Creation of Hip Hop"
Coretta Scott King-Virginia Hamilton Award for Lifetime Achievement for illustrator/author
Patricia and Fredrick McKissack
Margaret A. Edwards Award, for an author's "significant and lasting contribution to young adult literature"
Markus Zusak, author of "The Book Thief," "I Am the Messenger," "Fighting Ruben Wolf" and "Getting the Girl"
May Hill Arbuthnot Honor Lecture, recognizing an author, critic, librarian, historian or teacher of children's literature
Brian Selznick, author and illustrator of "Wonderstruck" and the Caldecott-winning "The Invention of Hugo Cabret," will deliver the 2015 Arbuthnot Lecture.
Pura Belpre awards for a Latino writer and illustrator "whose children's books best portray, affirm and celebrate the Latino cultural experience"
Illustrator: "Nino Wrestles the World," illustrated and written by Yuyi Morales
Author: "Yaqui Delgado Wants to Kick Your Ass," written by Meg Medina
Honor books
Author: "The Lightning Dreamer: Cuba's Greatest Abolitionist," written by Margarita Engle
Author: "The Living," written by Matt de la Peña
Author: "Pancho Rabbit and the Coyote: A Migrant's Tale," written by Duncan Tonatiuh
Illustrator: "Maria Had a Little Llama," illustrated and written by Angela Dominguez
Illustrator: "Tito Puente: Mambo King," illustrated by Rafael López and written by Monica Brown
Illustrator: "Pancho Rabbit and the Coyote: A Migrant's Tale," written by Duncan Tonatiuh
Stonewall Book Award, the Mike Morgan & Larry Romans Children's & Young Adult Literature Award for "books of exceptional merit relating to the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender experience"
"Beautiful Music for Ugly Children," written by Kristin Cronn-Mills
"Fat Angie," written by e.E. Charlton-Trujillo
Honor books
"Better Nate than Ever," written by Tim Federle
"Branded by the Pink Triangle," written by Ken Setterington
"Two Boys Kissing," written by David Levithan
5 questions for Tim Federle
Schneider Family Book Award for "books that embody an artistic expression of the disability experience"
Young children's book: "A Splash of Red: The Life and Art of Horace Pippin," written by Jen Bryant and illustrated by Melissa Sweet
Middle grades book: "Handbook for Dragon Slayers," written by Merrie Haskell
Teen book: "Rose Under Fire," written by Elizabeth Wein
Michael L. Printz Award for "excellence in literature written for young adults"
"Midwinterblood," written by Marcus Sedgwick
Honor books
"Eleanor & Park," written by Rainbow Rowell
"The Kingdom of Little Wounds," written by Susann Cokal
"Maggot Moon," written by Sally Gardner
"Navigating Early," written by Clare Vanderpool
A brief history of young adult literature
Theodor Seuss Geisel Award for beginning reader book
"The Watermelon Seed," written and illustrated by Greg Pizzoli
Honor books
"Ball," written and illustrated by Mary Sullivan
"A Big Guy Took My Ball!" written and illustrated by Mo Willems
"Penny and Her Marble," written and illustrated by Kevin Henkes
William C. Morris Award for "a debut book published by a first-time author writing for teens"
"Charm & Strange," written by Stephanie Kuehn
Finalists
"Sex & Violence," written by Carrie Mesrobian
"Dr. Bird's Advice for Sad Poets," written by Evan Roskos
"Belle Epoque," written by Elizabeth Ross
"In the Shadow of Blackbirds," written by Cat Winters
Robert F. Sibert Informational Book Award for informational books for children
"Parrots Over Puerto Rico," written by Susan L. Roth and Cindy Trumbore and illustrated by Susan L. Roth
Honor books:
"A Splash of Red: The Life and Art of Horace Pippin," written by Jen Bryant and illustrated by Melissa Sweet
"Look Up! Bird-Watching in Your Own Backyard," written and illustrated by Annette LeBlanc Cate
"Locomotive," written and illustrated by Brian Floca
"The Mad Potter: George E. Ohr, Eccentric Genius," written by Jan Greenberg and Sandra Jordan
YALSA Award for Excellence in Nonfiction for Young Adults
"The Nazi Hunters: How a Team of Spies and Survivors Captured the World's Most Notorious Nazi," written by Neal Bascomb
Finalists
"Go: A Kidd's Guide to Graphic Design," written by Chip Kidd
"Imprisoned: The Betrayal of Japanese Americans During World War II," written by Martin W. Sandler
"Courage Has No Color: The True Story of the Triple Nickles, America's First Black Paratroopers," written by Tanya Lee Stone
"The President Has Been Shot! The Assassination of John F. Kennedy," written by James L. Swanson
Mildred L. Batchelder Award for a book published in a language other than English in a country other than the United States and subsequently translated into English for publication in the United States
"Mister Orange," written by Truus Matti and translated by Laura Watkinson
Honor books
"The Bathing Costume or the Worst Vacation of My Life," written by Charlotte Moundlic and illustrated by Olivier Tallec
"My Father's Arms Are A Boat," written by Stein Erik Lunde and illustrated by Øyvind Torseter
"The War Within These Walls," written by Aline Sax and illustrated by Caryl Strzelecki
Odyssey Award for audiobooks
"Scowler," produced by Listening Library, written by Daniel Kraus and narrated by Kirby Heyborne
Honor audiobooks
"Better Nate Than Ever," produced by  Simon & Schuster Audio and written and narrated by Tim Federle
"Creepy Carrots!" produced by Weston Woods Studios Inc., written by Aaron Reynolds and narrated by James Naughton
"Eleanor & Park," produced by Listening Library, written by Rainbow Rowell and narrated by Rebecca Lowman and Sunil Malhotra
"Matilda," produced by Penguin Audio, written by Roald Dahl and narrated by Kate Winslet
Andrew Carnegie Medal for children's video
"Bink & Gollie: Two for One," produced by Paul R. Gagne and Melissa Reilly Ellard
Alex Awards for 10 adult books that appeal to teens
"Brewster: A Novel," written by Mark Slouka
"The Death of Bees: A Novel," written by Lisa O'Donnell
"Golden Boy: A Novel," written by Abigail Tarttelin
"Help for the Haunted," written by John Searles
"Lexicon: A Novel," written by Max Barry
"Lives of Tao," written by Wesley Chu
"Mother, Mother: A Novel," written by Koren Zailckas
"Relish: My Life in the Kitchen," written by Lucy Knisley
"The Sea of Tranquility: A Novel," written by Katja Millay
"The Universe Versus Alex Woods," written by Gavin Extence
What were your favorite recent books for young adults and children? Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page!
