Chinese football club Shanghai Shenhua hope to pull off a major transfer coup by signing former France international Nicolas Anelka.
Spokesman Ma Yue confirmed that talks are ongoing with the 32-year-old, who is out of favor at English Premier League side Chelsea.
"We're still negotiating over some details of the contract. If everything goes well, we'll announce it next Monday or Tuesday," Yue told CNN on Friday, adding that Anelka had been offered a three-year contract.
Anelka has played at some of Europe's top clubs, including Spain's Real Madrid and England's Arsenal and Liverpool.
His transfers so far have totaled almost £85 million ($133 million), making him one of the world's most expensive players in those terms.
However, his questionable attitude during his early career led to him being nicknamed "Le Sulk" at Arsenal and being banned for 45 days at Real after refusing to train.
In 2008, Anelka moved to Chelsea in a £15 million deal from Bolton, where he resurrected his career after a short spell in Turkey with Fenerbahce.
He showed the form that led Manchester City to pay £13 million for his services in 2002, rebounding from his decisive penalty miss in the 2008 European Champions League final to help Chelsea win the domestic championship in 2009-10.
However, he has rarely featured this season under new manager Andre Villas-Boas and is widely expected to leave Stamford Bridge during European football's January transfer window.
Anelka's international career came to a controversial halt during the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, when he was sent home in disgrace after clashing with coach Raymond Domenech. He was given an 18-match ban after refusing to apologize, but said he had already decided to retire from the national team.
Shenhua owner Zhu Jun said former France international Jean Tigana will become the club's new coach, according to the Shanghai Daily website.
"Tigana should be in the city by the middle of this month. He had already made a one-year coaching plan for the team," Zhu said.
The 56-year-old, who quit French club Bordeaux in May, has previously Turkey's Besiktas, Englanhd's Fulham and Lyon and Monaco in his homeland.
Shenhua finished 11th in the 16-team Chinese Super League this year, having been runners-up in 2005, 2006 and 2008.
