The legislative panel investigating the George Washington Bridge scandal was unable to determine whether New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie knew about the lane closures ahead of time, but the panel will continue to push for more answers, the co-chairman of the panel told CNN.
New Jersey State Assemblyman John Wisniewski, a Democrat, confirmed to CNN in a text message Thursday an earlier Wall Street Journal piece previewing the panel's report resulting from its months-long investigation into the lane closures. CNN obtained a copy of the report Friday.
According to the Wall Street Journal, which received a copy of the report, it declares there was "no conclusive evidence" that Christie "was or was not aware" of the lane closures on the George Washington Bridge before or while they were happening.
It also states, however, that a "former ally" made accusations that leave "open the question of when the governor first learned of the closures and what he was told."
"The report is not inconclusive," Wisniewski said in the text message. "It says, among other things, that because we have been unable to interview certain witnesses, it is not possible to determine whether the Governor did or did not know about the lane closures in advance."
Asked whether the panel would continue to pursue the investigation, Wisniewski said, "We are not done by any means."
In a separate phone exchange with CNN's Chris Frates, Wisniewski said the report will bring some new facts to light "that will certainly raise additional questions."
The panel is waiting, he said, for the U.S. Attorney, who is doing his own investigation, to give members the go-ahead to interview several key players.
The lane closures in September of last year snarled traffic in Fort Lee, N.J., in an act the report suggests was meant as political retribution against the town's Democratic mayor.
Two central figures in the lane closures were not accessible to legislative investigators: David Wildstein, Christie's appointee at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey who orchestrated the closures, and Christie's former deputy chief of staff, Bridget Kelly, who wrote an email declaring it was "Time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee."
Wisniewski told Frates that the report is a chronology of everything the committee has learned starting with Kelly's now infamous email, but larger questions remain over the motive of the closures.
An internal investigation ordered by Christie earlier this year absolved him of responsibility as well, and many of his supporters have decried the legislative inquiry as a political witch hunt aimed at him by Democrats looking to damage him before his expected 2016 presidential run.
Randy Mastro, the lead attorney for the internal investigation, argued the legislative committee's work "has simply corroborated" the administration's probe.
"The Committee has finally acknowledged what we reported nine months ago -- namely, that there is not a shred of evidence Governor Christie knew anything about the GWB lane realignment beforehand or that any current member of his staff was involved in that decision," Mastro said in a written statement.
The scandal itself did indeed damage him within the GOP, raising questions among some major party donors and strategists over whether more could come of the scandal.
He has, however, regained some of his stature because of his successful tenure as chairman of the Republican Governors Association, during which he raked in record-breaking fundraising hauls for the committee.
A CNN/ORC poll out this week showed Christie in fourth place in the GOP field, taking 8 percent support and coming in behind former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, neurosurgeon Ben Carson and former GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who took first.
