Ghana international Michael Essien has followed goalkeeper Petr Cech in agreeing a new five-year contract with English Premier League side Chelsea.
Michael Essien has made a big impression on new Chelsea coach Luiz Felipe Scolari.
The midfielder, who is in China for the start of the club's pre-season tour, is now tied to the London outfit until the summer of 2013.
The 25-year-old has made 143 appearances since moving to Stamford Bridge from French club Lyon in a $49 million transfer in August 2005, scoring 14 goals in total and helping Chelsea win the league title that season.
Essien's decision to commit his long-term future to the club is a boost for new manager Luiz Felipe Scolari, who allowed veteran holding midfielder Claude Makelele to join Paris St Germain on Monday.
"I have not been here long but it is clear to me that Michael Essien is one of the best midfield players in the world," Scolari said. "I have always admired him and it is good news for me and for Chelsea that he signs for so long."
The Accra-born Essien, who started his career in France with Bastia in 2000 before moving to Lyon three years later, was also pleased with the deal.
"I am really pleased to have extended my career with Chelsea," he said. "I am very happy here. We have a great team and fantastic fans who have always made me welcome.
"With the addition of the new manager, I am feeling very positive about the season ahead."
Chelsea announced on Monday that Czech Republic goalkeeper Cech signed a new five-year deal, while England full-back Wayne Bridge committed himself to four more years last week.
Scolari is still seeking to keep England midfielder Frank Lampard, who has ended talks over a new deal and now appears to be resigned to waiting until his contract runs out before joining Inter Milan following the upcoming season.
The Brazilian has so far added only Portugal playmaker Deco to his midfield ranks.
His first match in charge will be Wednesday's friendly against Guangzhou Pharmaceutical, one of the three games the team will play in China.
Striker Didier Drogba, who has been linked with moves to AC Milan and Barcelona, is not among the touring squad due to a recurring knee problem.
Khalid Boulahrouz, meanwhile, completed his transfer from Chelsea to Stuttgart on a four-year contract with the Bundesliga club.
The Netherlands central defender was released Monday by Chelsea and arrived in Stuttgart's training camp in Austria shortly before midnight after passing a medical exam in Stuttgart.
The deal between Stuttgart and Chelsea was completed Tuesday. Details were not given.
The Dutchman played for Hamburger SV for two seasons before going to Chelsea in 2006. He was loaned to FC Sevilla last season.
Boulahrouz's departure came a day after 35-year-old former France international Claude Makelele signed a two-year deal with Paris-Saint Germain after joining from Chelsea on a free transfer.
