David Beckham has promised he will do everything in his power to help England win the bid to stage the 2018 World Cup.
The England and LA Galaxy midfielder has been in South Africa with Football Association chief Lord Triesman to promote England's bid ahead of the draw for the 2010 tournament.
Beckham was an ambassador for the successful London 2012 Olympic campaign, and now has a similar role in the World Cup bid.
The 34-year-old, who was speaking at a Coaching for Hope project in Cape Town, believes "hard work" is the key England's bid.
"We can win the campaign with hard work - nothing in life is easy and you have to work for special things to be given to you and we are prepared for that," Beckham said.
"Football is in our culture, in our DNA. It's in us from the moment we are brought into this world, from when we are born and that's something we will always have."
Find out all the latest news about the build up to the World Cup in South Africa here.
FIFA vice-president Jack Warner, who had previously been critical of England's bid to stage the tournament, said that celebrity appeal can form just as important part of a bid as the quality of the stadiums.
"The stadiums and infrastructure is just one of the things that the bid will be judged on," Warner added.
"There is the social responsibility and the legacy that the World Cup leaves and other maters."
"Celebrities? Of course that will help - isn't that what football is all about?"
FA chief Lord Triesman also appreciates the role that Beckham, who has met with FIFA president Sepp Blatter and Warner while on the trip, can have on charming the relevant parties.
"When he talks to people, even privately, the passion and patriotism shines out of him," he said.
"England is one of the few countries with its stadia and its infrastructure that could host a World Cup almost immediately, next week.
"The diversity of cultures around our country is a big thing as well. There are not many countries where you can have Brazil and Portugal and so on coming to our country and for there to be lots of their fans already there. That's a special thing for us."
