President Barack Obama offered a bullish assessment of his war on Islamic terrorists in Syria and Iraq on Monday, even as he acknowledged small gains by ISIS would mean the U.S. engagement there will be prolonged.
Speaking inside a New Jersey airplane hangar with a massive Navy C-130 as his backdrop, Obama said the U.S. was "hammering these terrorists" by taking out supply chains and disrupting the network's command structure.
"We have blunted their momentum and put them on the defensive," Obama said.
"They may think that they can chalk up some quick victories, but our reach is long," he said. "We do not give up. You threaten America, you will have no safe haven. We will find you, and like petty tyrants and terrorists before you, the world is going to leave you behind and keep moving on without you, because we will get you."
Obama flew to Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, near Trenton, to offer his thanks to U.S. military personnel, many of whom have served in combat zones. He said the 3,000 troops who filled the hangar they were like "Santa in fatigues" for the work they had carried out on behalf of the United States.
During his remarks he noted his efforts to wind down the war in Afghanistan, where the U.S. combat mission will conclude at year's end.
The Obama administration initially said 9,800 troops would remain in Afghanistan next year, but earlier this month, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said the number would include up to 1,000 additional troops.
Hagel said the increased force would help provide "flexibility" as the U.S. works to maintain security in the country, which has been beset by a resurgence in Taliban attacks.
"This month, America's war in Afghanistan will come to a responsible end," Obama said. "That doesn't mean that everything's great in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is still a very dangerous place."
In New Jersey Obama was greeted by Republican Gov. Chris Christie, a vocal critic of Obama who has still maintained a amiable relationship with the President.
The pair shook hands and spoke for more than a minute on the military tarmac where Air Force One landed on Monday afternoon, before proceeding together to the airplane hanger where Obama delivered his address.
Christie, who is considering a run for the 2016 GOP presidential nomination, drew fire from fellow Republicans when he hugged Obama during a tour of Hurricane Sandy aftermath in 2012. That outing featured a football throwing contest on the Asbury Park boardwalk; Obama said Monday he wanted a "rematch" with the governor.
