Folashade Abugan is the third Nigerian athlete to have failed a drugs test at the Commonwealth Games in India, where she won two silver medals, it was revealed on Friday.
Abugan, who came second in the women's 400 meters last week and the 4x400m relay on Tuesday, has been stripped of both of her medals after testing positive for the banned anabolic substance testosterone prohormone.
The 20-year-old, who was world junior champion in 2008, has waived her right to have her "B" sample tested, the Commonwealth Games Federation said a day after the four-yearly event finished in New Delhi.
"Folashade Abugan returned an adverse analytical finding from a test conducted on October 8, 2010, after competing in the women's 400 meter final," the CGF said in a statement.
The news comes as a blow to the Nigeria team, who were already reeling following the failed tests of both women's 100m champion Osayemi Oludamola and Samuel Okon, who came sixth in the men's 110m hurdles.
That duo tested positive for the banned stimulant methylhexanamine.
The CGF statement also said Abugan has admitted liability for the failed test, and she has been disqualified from all the events she participated in.
"Ms Abugan wrote to the CGF waiving her rights to have her "B" sample analyzed and a hearing, as provided for within the CGF Anti-Doping Standard (ADS). She also admitted liability.
"She has been disqualified from all events she participated in during the Games, with the results nullified. This includes her silver medal in the women's 400 meters.
"As she was also a member of her country's second placed 4x400m relay team, that result is also nullified."
The silver medal she obtained in the 400m will now go to Aliann Tabitha Pompey of Guyana, with Christine Amertil of the Bahamas being promoted into the bronze medal position.
England's quartet of Kelly Massey, Victoria Barr, Meghan Beesley and Nadine Okyere have been elevated to second position in the 4x400m relay, with Canada's Amonn Nelson, Adrienne Power, Vicki Tolton and Carline Muir now claiming bronze.
