The American Psychological Association is calling on  state and federal officials to stop anti-gay legal measures and to legalize  same-sex marriage.
The scientific and professional organization's guiding  body voted unanimously at its annual meeting this week in Washington  to declare its support  for "full marriage equality for same-sex couples."
The resolution "clarifies the Association's support for  same-sex marriage" in light of new research, the group said. A similar resolution in 2004  opposed discrimination against same-sex relationships, but refrained from a more  formal policy recommendation.
Dr. Clinton Anderson, APA associate executive director,  said that the timing of the  resolution is an indirect result of several states' legalization of  marriage.
"We knew that marriage benefits heterosexual people in  very significant ways, but we didn't know if that would be true for same-sex  couples," said Anderson, who is also director of the APA's Office on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Concerns.
Now that six U.S.  states permit same-sex marriage, researchers have been able to conduct studies  with those couples.
The research, Anderson said, indicates that marriage "does  confer the same sense of security, support, and validation" to same-sex couples  as to heterosexual ones.
The resolution also points to evidence that ongoing  political debate about marriage creates stress for gay men and lesbians and  perpetuates stigmas and prejudice about their communities. This stress can make  people physically and psychologically sick, the APA says, calling the link  between stress and illness "well established."
Maggie Gallagher, chairman of the board of the National  Organization for Marriage, takes issue with the assertion that legalizing  same-sex marriage would improve community acceptance of homosexuality.
"There  is no evidence that gay teens are better off in Massachusetts, a state that has gay marriage, than they  are in Wisconsin, a state which has passed a marriage  amendment defining marriage as one man and one woman," she  said in an e-mail response to CNN.
Gallagher continued, "The release of this statement is  unfortunately going to undermine confidence in APA statements generally, I would  predict."
Both the National Organization for Marriage and the APA  are skeptical of one solution to the gay-marriage debate: civil unions. Rhode  Island NOM executive director Chris Plante is quoted in a press release on the  NOM website calling the move "nothing more than a Trojan Horse that will usher in  same-sex marriage sooner rather than later."  Elsewhere on its website, NOM  calls for dealing with legal and economic benefits separately from any  discussion of marriage or unions.
The APA also feels that civil unions miss the mark.
"Anything other than marriage is, in essence, a stigmatization of same-sex  couples. Stigma does have negative impacts on people," Anderson said.
"That's the  analysis that we've come to and why we've decided to support full marriage  equality -- because domestic partnership or civil union will still convey the  message that same-sex couples are not as good."
