(CNN Student News) -- December 5, 2013
Which former Soviet republic finds itself at a crossroads between Western Europe and Russia? How might a major American city's bankruptcy affect current and retired employees? Why do some animal activists want certain human rights extended to another species? CNN Student News explores the answers in Thursday's program.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might it be important for a journalist to seek multiple perspectives on a controversial story?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Soviet Union
2. bankruptcy
3. habeas corpus
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. How did Ukraine become an independent country? What was it a part of before its independence? Why is Ukraine divided politically?
2. What are some reasons why the city of Detroit has filed for bankruptcy? According to the report: What might be some effects of Detroit's bankruptcy declaration? What could happen if the city does not declare bankruptcy?
3. How are chimpanzees classified: as monkeys, apes or lemurs?
Discussion Questions:
1. Is protesting an effective form of influencing political change? Why or why not? What diplomatic solutions do you think could be sought in a nation like Ukraine?
2. What do you think might be the short-term and long-term benefits and drawbacks of a city declaring bankruptcy? Do you think Detroit will regain its former status as an important American manufacturing center? Why or why not? Do you think the city should declare bankruptcy? Explain.
3. Would you define a chimpanzee as a "person"? Why or why not? Do you think that chimpanzees should have some of the same rights as humans? What might be some of the pros and cons of such a designation? Could such a debate apply to other animals? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Europe
Ukraine
North America
Detroit, Michigan
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
