Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Samuel Eto'o were both kept under wraps by their former team-mates as Inter Milan held Champions League holders Barcelona to a dour Group F goalless draw at the San Siro.
Thierry Henry (left) finds no way past Javier Zanetti as Inter Milan and Barcelona cancel each other out.
The quick return of the two strikers to their old clubs dominated talk in the build-up to the match but neither player, or anyone else for that matter, was able to find the breakthrough as defences came out on top.
The visitors had the better of the chances, with Lionel Messi skipping inside two defenders forcing goalkeeper Julio Cesar into a fine save in the opening minute.
Seven minutes later Ibrahimovic had a decent chance to net against his former employers when he got in behind the Inter defence, but his subsequent shot was poor.
Messi had another effort soon after, his header being comfortably saved by Cesar, before Inter had their first sight of goal when Maicon fired over from 20 yards out.
Barca were back in the ascendancy towards the end of the half, and Seydou Keita missed the best chance of the period four minutes before the break.
Xavi's chip found Dani Alves inside the area, and he drew out Cesar before laying the ball back to Keita with most of the goal to aim for. However, the Mali international fired wide of the far post to let Inter off the hook.
Barca survived a sare in the 65th minute when Dejan Stankovic fired just over from outside the box, before Messi, put the ball over the bar from six yards out for Barca after latching onto Thierry Henry's driven cross-shot.
Barca then had a loud penalty appeal turned down, believing Stankovic had handled in the area, but those claims fell on deaf ears and the Catalan giants were forced to settle for a draw.
Meanwhile, in the other group match, Dynamo Kiev scored three goals in the final 20 minutes as they came from behind to beat Russian debutants Rubin Kazan 3-1.
The visitors took a shock 25th-minute lead when Alejandro Dominguez lashed a free-kick into the top left-hand corner of the net.
Kiev had to wait until the 70th minute to equalize when Ayiila Yussuf rose to head home Junior Gerson Magrao's corner.
Nine minutes later, Kiev went ahead when Andrei Shevchenko's pass found Magrao to fire home -- and Kiev made the three points safe with five minutes remaining when Oleg Gusev lashed home a right-footed shot.
In Group E, both Liverpool and Lyon won their opening home matches 1-0 against Hungarian side Debrecen and Fiorentina of Italy respectively.
At Anfield, Dirk Kuyt's 12th goal in 35 Champions League games gave the Premier League side a hard-fought victory.
The Dutchman is now Liverpool's third-highest scorer in the competition's history after he forced the ball home after goalkeeper Vukasin Poleksic had palmed out a Fernando Torres drive.
In Lyon, the home side made a winning start to their campaign with a narrrow win over a 10-man Fiorentina side who had striker Alberto Gilardino sent off at the end of the first-half for elbowing Jeremy Toulalan.
Miralem Pjanic scored the winner from close range in the 76th minute after Fiorentina goalkeeper Sebastien Frey had kept out Kim Kallstrom's cross.
