A former aide to Bernard Madoff, who faces charges related to Madoff's massive Ponzi scheme, appeared Friday in U.S. District Court for a pretrial hearing.
Annette Bongiorno, 62, along with co-defendants George Perez, Daniel Bonventre and Joann Crupi, went before U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain to address concerns about the right to a speedy trial.
Bongiorno's attorney, Roland Riopelle, said his client remains under detention at her Manhasset home on New York's Long Island with all of her assets restrained. He added, however, that there has been a "very preliminary discussion with the government to work things out."
Swain reduced Bongiorno's bail to $3 million from $5 million a week ago.
The charges against Bongiorno include conspiracy and tax evasion.
Bongiorno turned herself in to the U.S. Marshals Service in Florida in December after a federal judge in New York rejected her bail, according to U.S. Marshals Deputy Wayne Pickering.
Bongiorno had been approved for bail, but Swain later revoked that right over concerns of flight risk, given that she has access to millions of dollars, according to court documents.
She is said to have managed investment accounts for some of Madoff's largest and most important customers, including Carl Shapiro, Stanley Chais and Jeffry Picower, said Madoff's secretary, Eleanor Squillari.
"(Bongiorno) was running the accounts for the favored clients," Squillari said. "She really was the head of her department in the investment advisory part of the business."
The government previously filed civil complaints against Bongiorno and Crupi, both longtime Madoff employees who were supervisors of his "back office" staff. The suits are intended to retrieve millions of dollars in assets -- including homes and luxury cars -- that the two allegedly received while involved in Madoff's scheme.
In December, Madoff's son, Mark Madoff, committed suicide in his Manhattan apartment two years to the day after his father was arrested for swindling $50 billion from investors in the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.
Bernard Madoff pleaded guilty in 2009 and was sentenced to 150 years in prison.
CNN's Jordana Ossad contributed to this report.
