Ferrari president Luca di Montezemolo has leapt to the defense of the Italian Formula One team following Fernando Alonso's controversial win at the German Grand Prix on Sunday, accusing its critics of hypocrisy.
Ferrari was fined $100,000 by motorsport's ruling body the FIA, and referred to the World Motor Sport Council for further investigation after race stewards deemed it had breached rules banning team orders to drivers at Hockenheim.
Brazil's Felipe Massa, who was leading Alonso at the front going into lap 49 of 67, appeared to allow his Ferrari teammate to pass him to win the race.
But Montezemolo told Ferrari's official website: "Enough of this hypocrisy. The result is down to the efforts of all our people, who never give up.
"Now we have to continue working like this, to improve the car so that it is competitive at all the circuits we will encounter."
Ferrari fined as Alonso denies Massa in Hockenheim controversy
Montezemolo said the move was common practice within the Italian team.
"I simply reaffirm what I have always maintained, which is that our drivers are very well aware, and it is something they have to stick to, that if one races for Ferrari, then the interests of the team come before those of the individual," he said.
"In any case, these things have happened since the days of [1930s driver Tazio] Nuvolari, and I experienced it myself when I was sporting director, in the days of Niki Lauda and not just then."
Alonso's win put the two-time world champion back into contention for this year's title.
The 29-year-old is now within 34 points of championship leader Lewis Hamilton of McLaren while Massa, who finished second on Sunday, remains eighth with eight races left.
Alonso, who also won in Bahrain, secured his second win of the F1 calendar after Massa let him pass shortly after receiving a coded message by race engineer Rob Smedley via his car radio.
Smedley was heard saying to Massa: "Alonso is faster than you. Can you confirm you understand?" Once Alonso overtook him, an apologetic Smedley added: "Good lad -- just stick with it now, sorry."
F1 championship standings after Hockenheim
The incident seemed to be a tactical decision by Ferrari, with Alonso leading  Massa by 31 points in the overall standings before the race.
Despite the Italian team claiming it was not a team order, race stewards decided Ferrari was in breach of Article 39.1 which states that "team orders which interfere with a race result are prohibited".
It has since instigated widespread criticism within the sport, with Red Bull boss Christian Horner telling UK race broadcaster the BBC afterwards that "it's wrong for the sport."
