First-time winners and new shows took the lion's share of the hardware Sunday night at the 62nd Primetime Emmy Awards.
"Modern Family" beat out the heavily favored "Glee" for outstanding comedy honors, and wound up winning six Emmys out of 14 nominations while "Mad Men" and "Breaking Bad" continued their winning ways in the drama category.
"We are thrilled that families are sitting down to watch a television show," said "Modern Family" creator Steven Levitan. "Thank you for letting us into your families."
"The Pacific," which won seven Creative Arts Emmys last weekend and outstanding miniseries during the primetime show, was the overall champ, but the night's big winners were the TV movie "Temple Grandin," which won five Emmys for a total of seven.
"Modern Family" took four Emmys on Sunday night and six overall.
"Mad Men" received its third straight outstanding drama series trophy.
"I can't believe we are here," said series creator Matthew Weiner. The trend-setting AMC series received 17 nominations, and four Emmys.
Actress Claire Danes won her first Emmy receiving the best actress in a miniseries or a movie award for her turn in "Temple Grandin" which also scored up with seven wins including best miniseries or movie.
"This is in service of your work," Danes said, thanking the real-life Grandin during her acceptance speech.
The award show proved to be full of surprises.
Aaron Paul of "Breaking Bad" scored his first win for outstanding supporting actor in a drama, and Jim Parsons from "The Big Bang Theory" beat out such veterans Alec Baldwin and Tony Shalhoub for best actor in a comedy.
Edie Falco scored her fourth Emmy as lead actress. Falco, who had previously won for "The Sopranos" in the drama category, took home the award for best actress in a comedy for her role on "Nurse Jackie."
"I'm not funny," Falco insisted when she took to the stage.
"Top Chef" ended seven years of domination of "The Amazing Race" in the best reality show category. "The Daily Show" won for outstanding variety, music, or comedy series.
The critically acclaimed "Breaking Bad" swept the drama acting category with the show's star Bryan Cranston winning for best actor.
George Clooney received the Bob Hope Humanitarian Award for his many philanthropic works, including  "America: A Tribute to Heroes in the Wake of 9/11," "Tsunami Aid: A Concert of Hope," "A Concert for the Gulf Coast" and the "Hope for Haiti Now" telethon.
Kyra Sedgwick took home her first Emmy for best actress in a drama for her work on "The Closer," and Archie Panjabi from "The Good Wife" won for best supporting actress in a drama.
Jane Lynch from "Glee" looked shocked for her selection as best supporting actress in a comedy series and was followed to the podium by "Glee" co-creator Ryan Murphy, who won the award for directing in a comedy series.
Eric Stonestreet, who plays Cameron Tucker in ABC's "Modern Family," won the first Emmy Sunday for best supporting actor in a comedy series.
"All I wanted to be was a clown in the circus, growing up," Stonestreet said as he accepted the award.
The most spoken words during Sunday night's awards show may be "Glee" and "Mad Men," as those two shows dominate nominations with a total of 36.
Who wins and what they say will be seen sooner across the entire United States, since NBC moved the broadcast up several weeks to avoid a conflict with NFL football games that the network starts broadcasting on Sunday nights in September.
West Coast viewers, who normally have to wait three hours to see a delayed broadcast, could witness the Emmys live this year, which started at 8 p.m. ET/5 p.m. PT. The program repeated again on the West Coast immediately after it ended in the Eastern time zone.
Comedian Jimmy Fallon served as host of the show at the Nokia Theatre in downtown Los Angeles.
CNN's David Daniel contributed to this report
