Controversial Italian striker Mario Balotelli was sent off as English club Manchester City crashed out of the Europa League at the hands of Dynamo Kiev.
The Premier League side trailed 2-0 from last week's first leg in Ukraine and though they won the game 1-0 with a goal from Aleksandar Kolarov, they couldn't overturn the deficit to make the quarterfinals.
Their task was made much harder by the dismissal of Balotelli, who caught Kiev defender Goran Popov with his studs after a high challenge.
It is the second time the 20-year-old striker has been sent off since he joined City from reigning European champions Inter Milan for a reported fee of $36 million in August last year.
Kolarov's shot from 20 yards gave City's ten men a lifeline but though they went close through Argentina striker Carlos Tevez and Spain international David Silva, they couldn't force the tie into extra time.
After the match City manager Roberto Mancini told reporters he thought his side would have won if Balotelli had stayed on the pitch.
He said: "The problem for Mario is that he thinks he could be a fantastic player. But when he does something stupid like that, it is difficult for me, difficult for him and difficult for the team.''
Liverpool made it a dismal night for English clubs when they crashed out to Portuguese side Braga.
Despite missing a clutch of opportunities a 0-0 draw at Anfield meant Kenny Dalglish's side lost 1-0 on aggregate.
Braga's fellow countrymen Porto beat CSKA Moscow 2-1 thanks to goals from Hulk and Fredy Guarin, to progress 3-1 on aggregate.
Santi Cazorla and Giuseppe Rossi were on target for Spanish side Villarreal as they disposed of Bayer Leverkusen 5-3 on aggregate.
Portuguese side Benfica advanced to the last eight after they held Paris St Germain to a 1-1 draw in France to go through 3-2 on aggregate.
Nicolas Gaitan's away goal was canceled out by Mathieu Bodmer's strike eight minutes later but PSG couldn't break down a determined defence.
Spartak Moscow thrashed Dutch side Ajax 3-0 to progress 4-0 on aggregate.
The Russians ran out comfortable winners thanks to goals from Dmitri Kombarov, Welliton and Alex.
Dutch champions FC Twente fared better as they restricted Zenit St Petersburg to a 2-0 victory in Russia, to ensure a 3-2 aggregate victory.
Goals from Roman Shirokov and Alexander Kerzhakov weren't enough to see the 2008 UEFA Cup champions through.
Scottish champions Rangers were knocked out by Jeremain Lens' goal as Sporting Lisbon won at Ibrox.
