The action on the pitch at the World Cup has been sensational -- but one man is engineering plenty of eye-catching scenes off it too.
The wild touchline antics of Mexico coach Miguel Herrera have fans the world over willing his team to score, just so they can revel in his reaction.
During Monday's 3-1 win over Croatia, which secured Mexico's place in the last 16, Herrera was his usual firecracker self on the sidelines.
Now social media is awash with clips of Herrera hugging his players, screaming at the officials or rolling around the floor celebrating a goal.
"Miguel Herrera reactions are the best reactions ever," said one on Twitter. "Miguel Herrera on the sidelines should be a Broadway show. I'd watch for years straight," said another.
Herrera has had plenty to shout about too.
The 46-year-old took charge of the national team in October last year, with Mexico having struggled in their qualification group.
He guided Mexico through a playoff with New Zealand to secure a berth in Brazil and has transformed it into a confident, well organized unit.
After beating Cameroon in its opening match thanks to Oribe Peralta's goal, it held hosts Brazil to a 0-0 draw in its second clash.
But Mexico exploded into life on Monday, putting three goals past Croatia, each strike prompting an even more exuberant reaction from its coach.
After one goal Herrera was even bundled to the floor by defender Paul Aguilar, picking himself up in time for a leaping hug with goalkeeper Guillermo Ochoa.
"That is one of the happiest days of my life," Herrera later told reporters at a press conference. "It was a hard fight, but my team pulled through. We felt as if we were playing at home in Mexico.
"We overcame the first hurdle. We're happy. We're going to celebrate tonight but tomorrow we have to start thinking of our match with the Netherlands."
Should Mexico make it past the Dutch, who thumped defending champions Spain 5-1 in their opening match, one can only imagine the new heights Herrera's histrionics will reach.
