He's gone. So, now what?
How do those who clogged the streets of Egypt on Wednesday wanting so desperately to oust Mohamed Morsy, the now-deposed president of Egypt, feel about the future now it appears to be wide open?
Earlier this week, CNN spoke to four protesters about their hopes, demands and expectations, from a veteran demonstrator in Cairo who has marched in crowds since the beginning of Egypt's revolution in 2011 to a first-time protester in the port city of Alexandria.
We spoke to them again Friday about how they felt when Morsy was toppled, their thoughts on what should happen next and their concerns for the future of a country they are fighting so hard to change. This is what they had to say:
Ahmed Raafat
I was at Tahrir Square during the announcement of the army's statement. [The] square exploded with joy once protesters knew that Morsy was no longer the president. People were singing, chanting, singing and waving Egyptian flags. Fireworks were all over the square. Military helicopters flew over the square for hours.
I was happy that Morsy was toppled, but I was concerned, too. The fact that the army is back on the political scene makes me worry. The road map is what we have been calling for since [former Egyptian president] Mubarak's ousting. I wish Morsy had called for early presidential elections and saved the whole situation.
The situation is very complicated and, to be honest, I'm not sure if the army's intervention was the right thing to do. I would personally prefer that we achieve our goals and demands without any interference from the military.
There's a strong debate on whether what happened was a coup or a revolution. I think the military sided with the people after [they] took to the streets. Egyptians prefer to call it a revolution.
iReport opinion: It's an Egyptian revolution, not a coup
Those in power [now] should stick to the demands of the people. They should return Egypt to civilian rule as soon as possible. They should respect human rights and apply the law fairly without any extraordinary measures. They should keep the transitional period as short as possible.
[The] people must keep a close watch on those in power and take action if there's any deviation from their demands and goals.
Mohamed Boraie
It was such an interesting day. I went to [Tahrir] Square around 4 p.m., as I wanted to see how people would react to the speech. People started shaking hands and celebrating after hearing [the] news [of] Morsy's ousting. I sat down in a corner of the square and observed people celebrating and tried to capture it on camera.
ElBaradei: 'Morsy's ouster was needed so Egypt cannot fail'
The army acted very quickly to meet the increasing demands of the protesters to protect the country from slipping into violence and civil war between pro- and anti-Morsy protesters.
The army ... is very keen to make sure that their interests are protected before the country becomes uncontrollable. This army made it clear, by choosing a civilian to lead the interim process ... that the masses of people would not revolt back at the army as before.
It is sad to see Morsy destroy the political future of the Muslim Brotherhood [Islamist movement backing Morsy that rose to power after the fall of Mubarak] by sticking to power and not allowing a smooth transition. The Brotherhood has a great grassroots structure that should be utilized to build Egypt.
Those in power now should focus on economic reform to reach the demands of the lower income brackets. Also, education and gender equality should be a priority to empower youth and women -- two factors any economy depends on to progress.
Maged Eskander
We have finally relaxed now this bad group [of rulers] has finally ended [their time in power] -- my wife told me it's the same feeling you have after cleaning your house.
All the army's [actions] until now are great, [they've not made] a single mistake. They learned a big lesson from January 25, 2011, [when the Egyptian revolution began]. They just protected the people's demands and put the country on the right track.
Events in Egypt: What we know so far
Morsy should step back, and face legal matters if there any [and] we [will] steadily build our country. We should write a good constitution that fulfills all Egyptians, [have] elections and select a capable government.
The people can do a lot to support their leaders -- they just need a guide, and the people will do miracles.
Marwan Osman
I was following the news from home in front of the television and on my laptop on social networks, along with my family. When the news was announced -- it was like Egypt had just won the World Cup in soccer. Everyone was happy and my parents cried from joy. [People in] cars in the street began cheering for the news.
Opinion: Get ready for the extremist backlash
I'm one of the people who does not want the army to rule the country, so the interim president is the most suitable solution to avoid having the army ruling.
Nothing should happen to Morsy. He should be free to live wherever he wants and however he wants. Whoever is in power now should prepare fast for presidential elections and complete the transitional period as early as possible.
The people should observe the progress done [so far] -- and protest again if something goes wrong against their will.
