Brazilian striker Robinho, the most expensive player in English football history after Manchester City paid Real Madrid 42.5 million euros for him two years ago, has joined AC Milan on a four-year contract for an undisclosed fee.
The 26-year-old became the first big-name signing in City's recent revolution, but he failed to settle in the north of England -- going back home to join Santos on loan in January before eventually leaving Eastlands on a permanent basis for the San Siro.
Robinho will link up with recent Barcelona loan signing Zlatan Ibrahimovic and compatriots Ronaldinho and Alexandre Pato in an exciting-looking forward line for the new Serie A season.
"I am really happy to be here," Robinho told Milan's official website. "I am delighted to have been given this opportunity and I want to prove my worth.
"My ambition is to play well and to help Milan regain the title," added the Brazilian, who scored 14 goals in 41 appearances for the English side.
With Robinho's arrival, Milan have allowed Klass Jan Huntelaar to leave the club with the Dutch striker signing for German Bundesliga side Schalke, as the final day of the summer transfer window saw a host of players move clubs.
Schalke have paid Milan 14 million euros for the 27-year-old, who was a member of the Netherlands squad that reached the World Cup final in Soouth Africa.
Huntelaar failed to establish himself as a regular in his one season at the San Siro following his move from Real Madrid in 2009.
"Negotiations were tougher than expected," Schalke coach Felix Magath told German newspaper Bild on Tuesday, "I am happy to have Klaas Jan. He will help us."
Huntelaar was not alone in leaving the San Siro with long-serving defender Kakha Kaladze ending a 10-year association with Milan by joining Genoa.
And striker Marco Borriello has also been allowed to move on following the signings of Robinho and Ibrahimovic, joining Roma on a one-year loan deal.
Huntelaar will link up again with fomer Real Madrid team-mate Raul, who signed for the Gelsenkirchen-based side earlier in the year.
On a busy day for Schalke, they have also signed 24-year-old Spanish midfielder Jose Manuel Jurado from Atletico Madrid and Lille defender Nicolas Plestan on a three-year deal.
Elsewhere in Germany, Bundesliga leaders Hoffenheim have announced the signing of Icelandic midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson on a four-year deal from English Championship side Reading for a fee of seven million euros.
Meanwhile, Stuttgart have announced the arrival of Italian international Mauro Camoranesi from Juventus on a one-year deal with an option for an additional year.
The 34-year-old moves on after eight seasons with the club and joins Frenchman David Trezeguet, who has joined Spanish Primera Liga newcomers Hercules, in leaving the Turin giants as coach Luigi del Neri continues reshaping his squad.
Hercules added to the signing of Trezeguet by completing the capture of Real Madrid's Dutch midfielder Royston Drenthe on a one-year loan deal.
Another player to leave Juventus is French defender Jonathan Zebina, who has joined Brescia on a two-year contract. Juve have replaced Zebina in their squad with Arsenal left-back Armand Traore, who has joined on a season-long loan deal.
In England, Sunderland have smashed their transfer record with the signing of Rennes striker Asamoah Gyan on a four-year contract.
Gyan, who starred for Ghana in the World Cup finals, has cost Sunderland 15 million euros, beating the fee paid last year for Tottenham striker Darren Bent.
The biggest domestic transfer in England saw Liverpool swoop for Fulham left-back Paul Konchesky for an undisclosed fee on a four-year contract.
Liverpool manager Roy Hodgson, who was in charge of Konchesky when he was at Craven Cottage, has allowed Finnish striker Lauri Dalla Valle and Swedish winger Alex Kacaniklic to move to London in the opposite direction.
Elsewhere in England, Birmingham City have pulled off a transfer coup by signing former Arsenal winger Alexander Hleb on a one-year loan deal from Barcelona.
On a busy day for Birmingham manager Alex McLeish, the club also confirmed the signings of Spartak Moscow's Czech defender Martin Jiranek on a one-year contract and the capture of Chile international midfielder Jean Beausejour from Mexican outfit Club America on a three-year contract.
Meanwhile, Argentine midfielder Javier Mascherano was unveiled as a Barcelona player to fans at the Camp Nou on Monday, after passing a five-hour medical at the Catalan club.
The 26-year-old had made no secret of his wish to leave Liverpool and expressed his delight at signing a four-year deal with the Spanish champions.
"When I landed, I said that I was achieving a dream. At last I will be able to say that I play for Barcelona, the team who I wanted to play for," Mascherano told the official FIFA website.
"I'm going to have the chance to play with players who I admire. This is an opportunity of a lifetime."
