(CNN Student News) -- November 9, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• India  • Haiti
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
MR. KOCZOT'S CLASS, BROAD CREEK MIDDLE SCHOOL, NEWPORT, NORTH CAROLINA: We are students at Broad Creek Middle School in Newport, North Carolina and we are flying you in to CNN Student News!
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Thank you to Mr. Koczot's class for that exemplary introduction! My name is Carl Azuz, and today's top stories are right now!
First Up: President Obama in India
AZUZ: An interesting headline came out of President Obama's third day in India: He was giving a speech to India's parliament, its government, and the U.S. president officially endorsed India getting a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council. Okay, so what? Well, since 1945, the U.N. Security Council has had five permanent members. They include the U.S., the United Kingdom, France, China, and Russia. These five countries have had the ultimate power to veto any major move that the U.N. wants to make, so a permanent seat there is very powerful. CNN's Ali Velshi explains why President Obama wants India, to have one:
ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Why did President Obama bring it up? Well, the U.S. sees a huge potential upside to a powerful India in terms of democracy. President Obama sees India's system as a model for developing countries.
And then there's the economy. We've discussed this. India is booming, creating more and richer consumers every year. And, finally, there's the issue of security. India is involved in Afghanistan, is joining the cause for nuclear nonproliferation. As for Pakistan, America's ties with that country do complicate its ties with India because those two are arch rivals. But that, too, was part of the president's address.
AZUZ: Besides Pakistan, though, China also sees India as a rival and doesn't want India permanently on the Security Council. And Japan has been trying to get a permanent U.N. seat since the early 1990s. So while the president's statement was welcomed in India, action isn't expected anytime soon -- if ever.
Cargo Embargo
AZUZ: No air cargo from Yemen will be allowed into the United States anytime soon. The Department of Homeland Security is also saying "no" to any air cargo from the African country of Somalia. And no airline passengers can travel with large printer cartridges. These new rules are in effect immediately, and here is the reason: An apparent terrorist plot involving two package bombs. They were discovered in late October on air cargo shipments from Yemen to the U.S.
Is This Legit?
CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is This Legit? The disease cholera is caused by a virus. This is false; cholera is caused by a bacterial infection.
Unhealthy Living Conditions
AZUZ: That means that cholera can be treated with antibiotics if needed. And in most cases, it is an easily curable disease: The World Health Organization says proper treatment can keep the number of people who die from cholera to less than one percent. The problem in Haiti is, there's not a lot of proper treatment. Cholera can spread where drinking water and conditions are generally dirty. That's exactly what Paula Newton saw in Haiti's capital.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: There is no delicate way to put this, Port au Prince looks and smells like a dump, because it is. Ten months after the earthquake, the city has degenerated into a filthy cauldron of water, garbage and human waste. The garbage situation has always been a problem here, but now no one pays any attention to where they dump it and the government makes virtually no effort to pick it up.
Don't you think that Haitians deserve better than this?
UNIDENTIFIED HAITIAN MALE: We get used to it. Everybody who grew up in this country are used to it.
NEWTON: But the stakes are higher now. As cholera stalks the city, these are the conditions that so worry health experts. Just look, Haitians desperate for water, collect it from a pipe right next to a burning collection of waste.
The city is like an open garbage pit, this is a central canal that cuts right through the middle of the city and garbage of all descriptions flows right through it. And this is where it ends up, right down the canal and piled up. Tons of garbage just laying waste here in the canal that no one ever seems capable of collecting. With cholera now a reality in Haiti, this is not just a matter of aesthetics or hygiene, it may soon become a matter of life and death.
(END VIDEO)
Drowsy Drivers
AZUZ:  Okay, our next story today: You know distracted driving -- texting, eating, makeup -- is a dangerous problem. You're not gonna believe this: In a survey taken by AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety, two out of every five drivers -- this is 40 percent we're talking about -- say they've fallen asleep while driving!  And in the previous month, more than 25 percent of drivers surveyed said they had trouble keeping their eyes open on the road. And this isn't just quick dozing without consequences. Researchers figure that drowsy driving is a factor in one of every eight crashes that send someone to the hospital. The head of the AAA Foundation says people are just underestimating how tired they are and overestimating how well they can deal with it while driving.
Shoutout
CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Ms. Wheeler's social studies and science classes at Tomahawk Creek Middle School in Midlothian, Virginia! Which of these observances was previously known as Armistice Day? Is it: A) Memorial Day, B) Arbor Day, C) Flag Day, or D) Veterans Day? You've got three seconds -- GO! The U.S. Congress established Armistice Day in 1921; the name was changed to Veterans Day in 1954. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Helping Veterans Cope
AZUZ: So while it started as a way to honor those who served in World War I, Veterans Day is now a tribute to everyone who's served in the military. A man and some mammals in Florida, are working together to help America's veterans. Those who return home with "post traumatic stress disorder" sometimes feel intense anxiety, long after the ordeal of combat. Meet the ones who are offering helping hands and fins.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
MANDY RODRIGUEZ, U.S. MARINE CORPS VETERAN: Come on, lets go out to the dock. Come on up. Who wants to play? There you go.
So this is not a bad way to spend the rest of your life; watching these wonderful animals, learning from them. My name is Mandy Rodriguez and I served in Vietnam. When I joined the Marine Corp, I was a teenager. And um, I was, I went through my training. And was sent to Vietnam almost immediately, like the rest of us. I make the best friends ever in um, in um Vietnam. And I've also seen some of the most horrific things I've ever seen in my life. Which, unfortunately, still stick with me. After coming back from Vietnam as a young Marine, I was very confused, very angry. Probably just like all of us out of war. And these animals helped me. They actually saved my life, if you want to say. They're just a wonderful way, their happiness, the way they look at you, the way they treat you. Uh, and it carries through. And I actually used that with other humans, and guess what? It works!
I'm Mandy Rodriguez, nice to meet you.
We figured that maybe this would be a good way to help these veterans.
Ready Marine? That a girl, there she comes, she's sizing you up. Now there you go, now look this way, big smile. Do you feel the vibration?
We developed the program to help the men and women who are coming back from Afghanistan and Iraq. These are heroes and these people deserve our accolades, deserve our applause. For that one half hour of time they probably would have forgotten all those things that they have gone through in their war.
Can you kiss Johnny goodbye, please?
They have that ability to put you in a world where you're accepted. To put you in a world where it's a good world and not, you're not thinking about those things, those traumatic things that you've experienced in the past.
(END VIDEO)
Blog Promo
AZUZ: We want you to be part of our Veterans Day show this Thursday; we're looking for your comments! Talk to us on our blog or our Facebook page about the best way you can think of to honor America's veterans. The blog is live at CNNStudentNews.com; you'll find our official Facebook page at Facebook.com/CNNStudentNews.
Before We Go
AZUZ: All right, I know we're a little early in the year for this, but the "12 Days of Christmas" lyric is supposed to be "12 drummers drumming." This is six hundred! Or somewhere close to it. You've heard of "Woodstock"; welcome to Woodstick! A plethora of percussionists playing, pounding, and putting paradiddles to work in an effort to raise money to help schools and to benefit sick children. Every imaginable instrument of percussion was there, including a $35,000 gong.
Goodbye
AZUZ: That definitely snared some attention. But the event can't be beat, as a fine cymbal of helping people out. Stick around tomorrow for more CNN Student News!
