Bayern Munich made short work of opponents Greuther Furth as the Bavarian giants made it a miserable Bundesliga debut for their less illustrious neighbors with a 3-0 win on Saturday.
Elsewhere, Borussia Monchengladbach continued their good form from last season with a 2-1 win over Hoffenheim. Bayer Leverkusen struggled in their first game of the season, going down 2-1 to Eintracht Frankfurt despite taking the lead in the first half.
Xerdan Shaqiri was handed his debut for Bayern, and tasked with replacing the ill Franck Ribery, with Brazilian defender Dante also making his first start in defence.
It was one of Bayern's regulars who opened the scoring, however, with Thomas Muller lashing the ball into the net from close range after a header from debutant Dante. Bayern dominated throughout and doubled their lead in the 59th minute when Croatian striker Mario Mandzukic -- signed in the summer from Wolfsburg -- headed his first goal of the season past goalkeeper Max Grun.
Dutch winger got his reward for a fine performance when he added a third in the 78th minute. Robben's cross took a wicked deflection off Furth's defender Nehrig and looped over the unfortunate Grun's head before settling in the back of the net.
"We were very composed, smart and clever too," Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes told the club's website.
"Naturally, it's normal that you need a little time to get going. We were playing a promoted team who were still euphoric after what they achieved, and that's never easy."
"We're aiming very high this season, the team is fired up and extremely motivated, and we're getting through a lot of good work, so I'm not surprised by today's result."
Mike Buskens, Furth coach, admitted that getting a result at Bayern is "hard" if they take the lead.
"Once you fall behind to Bayern it's always hard. If you give them space just for an instant, they'll free up Robben with a first-time pass, and suddenly it's 2-0," he told the Bayern website.
Monchengladbach recovered from their mid week defeat in the champions League qualifiers to claim an opening win over Hoffenheim. Gladbach enjoyed large spells of possession, but couldn't make the breakthrough.
In the 33rd minute, Juan Arango delivered a dangerous free kick into the box that tall striker Mike Hanke was able to head into the net to open the scoring.
The goal didn't ignite the game, with neither side creating any clear opportunities. However, in the 66 minute Gladbach goalkeeper Marc-Andre Ter Stegen struggled to hold a shot from Eren Derdiyok and Roberto Frimino pounced to prod the ball home.
The game looked to be heading for a draw when Arango stepped up to strike another free kick. This time the Venezuelan curled the ball into the top corner to give his team all three points.
Bayer Leverkusen suffered a poor start to life under new full time manager Sami Hyypia.
Things looked to be going well for the former Liverpool man, with Stefan Kiessling giving Leverkusen the lead on the half hour mark. Kiessling did well to pounce when Kevin Trapp spilled a shot from Carlos Zambrano.
Frankfurt, returning to Germany's top league after a year in Bundesliga.2, rallied well and deserved their equalizer in the 57th minute. Stefan Aigner leveled the score when he shot home after good work from Bastian Oczipka.
After the equalizer the game opened up as the two teams went for a winner. Leverkusen went close, and should have taken the lead when Gonzalo Castro fired wide.
Frankfurt's Martin Lanig finally settled it in the 82nd minute when he perfectly connected with a cross from Stefano Celozzi to fire an unstoppable header into the Leverkusen net.
Nuremberg got their season of to a good start in a poor game against Hamburg. Hanno Balitsch scored the only goal of the game in the 56th minute, poking home the rebound from Per Nilsson's header on to the bar.
Hamburg had their chances. Marcel Jansen should have taken a point for the North Germans in the final minute, but his header somehow hit the bar when the back of the net seemed simpler.
Fortuna Dusseldorf have signed 18 players over the summer, but only gave debuts to five of them in their starting eleven. The newly promoted side looked the more impressive of the two teams, and a brace from Dani Schahin -- who arrived from Furth this summer -- ensured they took their first points of the season.
Both Frieburg and Mainz enjoyed wins in the DFB cup last weekend, but neither could take the three points as the Bundesliga got under way.
The two sides were evenly matched, but it was Freiburg's new signing Max Kruse that made the breakthrough in the 48th minute. Mainz attacked from the restart, and eventually got the equalizer in the 65th minute when Nicolai Muller was fouled in the box. The lively Andreas Ivanschitz stepped up to convert the spot kick.
