The oil spill on the Gulf Coast has states and visitors bureaus working hard to keep the public updated and reassure beach-bound travelers.
Here are some of the latest updates from destinations affected by the oil disaster:
Northwest Florida
A no-swim advisory has been lifted for Fort Walton Beach, Destin and Okaloosa Island, according to the Emerald Coast Convention and Visitors Bureau, which represents the three destinations.
"While crews continue to work to remove any remaining tar balls that may have floated ashore, visitors and locals alike are invited to enjoy the beaches as they normally would," the visitors bureau website said.
iReport: See photos from Okaloosa Island
Dime-size to 5-inch tar balls continue to wash up in widely scattered areas of northwest Florida, but all of the state's beaches remain open, according to Visit Florida, the state's tourism corporation.
"There have been no reports of Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill-related oil products reaching the shore beyond the Northwest Florida region," Visit Florida's website said.
iReport: Share your photos of affected beaches
Scattered tar balls and oil patches have affected Panama City Beach. "The beaches are open and the swimming is still safe," the area's visitors bureau website said.
The water at Pensacola Beach is also open for swimming and fishing, according to the Pensacola Bay Area Convention and Visitors Bureau.
"On Pensacola Beach there are reports of tar balls and sheen on less than 1 percent of the entire beach," the bureau's website said.
Due to heavier oiling on Perdido Key, a health advisory has been issued for beaches stretching from the Florida-Alabama line to the entrance of Johnson Beach on Perdido Key, the Pensacola Bay Area visitors bureau said. Swimming and fishing in the affected waters are not advised.
Gulf Islands National Seashore
All of the Gulf Islands National Seashore sites, which are in Florida and Mississippi, are open, the National Park Service's website said.
Fort Pickens, Florida, has experienced tar balls on shore, and skimming boats have been collecting oil offshore at Petit Bois Island, Mississippi, and Perdido Pass.
"Surveillance for oiling continues throughout all park areas on a daily basis. Cleanup operations continue throughout the park," the website said.
Gulf Shores and Orange Beach, Alabama
Gulf Shores and Orange Beach, Alabama, have experienced significant oiling, according to the Alabama Gulf Coast Convention and Visitors Bureau.
"The beaches are open and visitors are still welcome to sunbathe and walk the beach, but we strongly suggest they swim in a pool or enjoy our many off-beach activities," the site said.
The Alabama Department of Public Health has issued an advisory against swimming in waters off Gulf Shores, Orange Beach and Fort Morgan or in bay waters close to Fort Morgan, Bayou St. John, Terry Cove, Cotton Bayou and Old River.
Grand Isle, Louisiana
Oil is affecting more than 45 miles of Louisiana coast, according to a state emergency website, although most of the coast is unaffected.
"The primary affected area is from the mouth of the Mississippi River extending east. Over 75 percent of Louisiana's coastal waters extend westward from the mouth of the Mississippi River," according to the Cajun Coast Visitors and Convention Bureau website.
Grand Isle has closed its public beach, the site said.
