The daughter of Peter Kalikow, the former owner of the New York Post, has been arrested after allegedly trying to sell 30 bags of heroin, court documents show.
Kathryn Kalikow, 27, and Brian Whelan, 28, were charged Monday with possession of drugs with intent to sell after allegedly advertising the drugs on Craigslist as "high quality diesel pain relief."
On Sunday, undercover police detectives in the Bronx, New York, responded to the Craigslist post, which referred to the heroin as "stamps, diesel, H train, dope, bundles, tickets, dog food." They set up a meeting through text messages, one of which said, "It'll be $400 and an extra $40 to deliver it."
Kalikow and Whelan agreed on an address, arrived in a blue Volkswagen and texted an undercover detective, who went to the vehicle and questioned the couple, the documents say.
Kalikow said, "Yes I have drugs. He's my boyfriend, I was holding on to it for him," the records show, and she gave the detective three plastic bags, each containing 10 small bags of a tan, powdery substance.
The court documents say Whelan told officers that it was his idea to post the ad on Craigslist because he needs treatment. "I am a heroin addict," he said, "and to afford the drug, I agreed to sell some of the drug on consignment for the person I buy from."
Whelan and Kalikow pleaded not guilty at their arraignments Monday and were released on their own recognizance. They are expected to return to court on May 14, said Melvin Hernandez, a spokesman for the Bronx district attorney.
On Monday evening, just after the arraignment, Whelan's family admitted him voluntarily to a drug rehabilitation facility, Whelan's attorney, Marvin Ray Raskin, said Tuesday.
Kalikow's attorney did not immediately return calls to CNN.
Her father purchased the New York Post in 1988 and sold it in 1993, and was the chairman of New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority from 2001 to 2007. He now operates a real estate business based in his 49-floor skyscraper, 101 Park Avenue.
He said in a statement that he and his wife "are very concerned, and all we are concentrating on now is helping our daughter."
