Actor Shia LaBeouf has settled charges related to his summer meltdown on Broadway by agreeing to get more alcohol abuse treatment.
LaBeouf appeared at a Manhattan court Wednesday to plead guilty to one count of disorderly conduct under a deal that drops his trespass and harassment charges.
The sentence requires LaBeouf, who has been getting outpatient alcohol treatment since his arrest, to continue treatment for another three months. The disorderly conduct conviction will be withdrawn if he completes the treatment and does not get arrested in the next six months.
The "Transformers" actor was initially arrested by New York police on June 26 "for refusing to leave a theatrical performance when asked, for creating unreasonable noise and using obscene language outside of Studio 54, and for spitting at a police officer at the Midtown North police precinct," Assistant District Attorney Alyssa Russell said in court Wednesday.
The criminal complaint said LaBeouf was sitting in the audience in a theater at Studio 54, watching a performance of "Cabaret," when he yelled "loudly at the actors onstage" and refused to leave.
As a police officer escorted the actor out of the theater, LaBeouf allegedly said, " "F--- you. This is f---ing bull---. Do you know my life? Do you know who the f--- I am? Do you know who I am," the complaint said.
At the police precinct, the actor spat in the direction of the officer and cursed at him, according to prosecutors.
"We appreciate the thoughtfulness of the resolution by the district attorney's office," LaBeouf's attorney Robert Gage told CNN after the hearing.
LaBeouf must return to court on November 12 to prove he has completed the alcohol treatment.
Mel Gibson sympathizes with Shia LaBeouf
He rose to fame at age 14 as the star of the Disney series "Even Stevens." He has stayed busy with regular movie and TV roles, including starring in three "Transformers" films. Of late, he has played in films with a more literary appeal, such as "Nymphomaniac" and "The Necessary Death of Charlie Countryman."
