The Manhattan nightclub where singer Chris Brown and rapper Drake allegedly clashed has lost its liquor license because of violations cited by the New York State Liquor Authority.
Brown and several others were cut by flying bottles and fists in a melee at the W.i.P. nightclub in the early morning hours of June 15, according to Brown's representative.
"The SLA will not tolerate violent bars that break the law," State Liquor Authority Chairman Dennis Rosen said. "This should serve as a message that this agency will not hesitate to take immediate action when licensees pose a threat to public health and safety."
The liquor authority voted Tuesday to impose an emergency suspension on liquor sales and consumption at the club because of "a string of violent incidents," including a "large brawl" when Brown and Drake were there, agency spokesman William Crowley said in a written statement.
The club faces charges on 17 alcohol license violations involving drug activity inside the club, lack of supervision, becoming a drain on police resources, and using the name "W.i.P." without the authorization of the liquor authority, the agency said. In total, the club was charged with 17 Alcoholic Beverage Control Law violations.
The club owner can request a hearing before an administrative law judge to get the liquor license back.
San Antonio Spurs guard Tony Parker is suing the club for $20 million because of an eye injury he claims he suffered during the June 15 fight.
Parker claims he suffered "a corneal laceration of the left eye and other injuries" and those injuries left him "unable to attend to his usual duties and vocation," according to the lawsuit.
The suit cites media reports in alleging "an altercation" between Brown and Drake, though Drake's representative has maintained that the rapper wasn't involved "in any wrongdoing of any kind" that evening at W.i.P.
Brown, who suffered a cut to his chin at the nightclub, has asserted he is a victim and is cooperating with New York authorities, his representative said.
Parker was "sitting at a separate table, apart from Drake and Brown," the suit said. "As a result of the altercation at the club that night, (Parker) was caused to suffer severe personal injuries."
The suit alleges that the owners and operators of the nightclub were "negligent in permitting Drake's entourage and Brown's entourage to be in the club at the same time despite known tension between the two" and contends the owners failed to provide "sufficient and efficient security."
Brown representative Jeff Raymond said a "brutal attack" injured Brown, his girlfriend, model Karrueche Tran, and his bodyguard.
Brown and others in his group have been interviewed by New York police, Brown's spokesman said last week. A New York Police spokesman also confirmed last week the department was investigating the incident.
Brown was partying with friends in the VIP section of the South Village club while the rapper Drake and his friends were nearby, according to statements from the artists' representatives.
CNN's Carolyn Sung contributed to this report.
