Borussia Dortmund's title celebrations have been put on hold for another week after the champions-elect suffered a shock defeat on Saturday and closest rivals Bayer Leverkusen won.
Dortmund would have clinched a first German crown since 2002 with victory against the Bundesliga's bottom team if Leverkusen had drawn or lost.
But the second-placed club kept the title race going into the final three games of the season with a 2-1 victory over Hoffenheim, then Borussia Monchengladbach kept alive the club's slim survival hopes with a 1-0 victory in the late match.
Defending champions Bayern could not return to third place, being held at Eintracht Frankfurt, and face a battle for the final Champions League spot with Hannover -- who beat Freiburg 3-1 on Thursday.
The title race continues next weekend in a similar scenario as Dortmund host Nuremberg on Saturday and Leverkusen travel to Cologne on Sunday.
Hannover win puts pressure on Bayern
Dortmund's lead was trimmed to five points after Mohamadou Idrissou's winner 10 minutes before halftime, which moved Gladbach off the bottom on goal difference above St. Pauli and left three clubs on 29 points.
Wolfsburg can climb out of that triumvirate at home to 14th-placed Cologne on Sunday, but even victory will still leave the 2008-09 champions in the relegation playoff place.
Cameroon striker Idrissou held off Neven Subotic, cut in from the left and beat Dortmund keeper Roman Weidenfeller to give the home team a shock lead.
Dortmund coach Jurgen Klopp brought on Mohamed Zidan and top Lucas Barrios, but the closest the visitors came to scoring was when teenager Mario Gotze hit the crossbar.
Leverkusen came from behind to beat mid-table Hoffenheim, who led in the 28th minute when Iceland midfielder Gylfi Sigursson went past three men before before beating goalkeeer Rene Adler.
Sigursson also hit the post before the home team equalized five minutes from halftime, when Michal Kadlec headed in Arturo Vidal's corner.
Jupp Heynckes' side then went ahead six minutes after the break as Vidal slammed home the winner when Hoffenheim's defense could not clear the ball from their own box.
Bayern needed a controversial late penalty to salvage a point at struggling Eintracht Frankfurt, who took the lead nine minutes after halftime.
The home side, hovering uncomfortably above the relegation playoff place, cheered the sellout crowd when Sebastian Rode drove in a 54th-minute shot after Bayern midfielder Anatoliy Tymoshchuk deflected Benjamin Kohler's free-kick into his path.
Theofanis Gekas should have doubled the lead but squandered two chances before Bayern received a lifeline with two minutes left when Martin Fenin was ruled to have fouled Luiz Gustavo.
Mario Gomez netted the resulting penalty for his 23rd league goal this season, while angry home coach Christophe Daum was sent to the stands for arguing.
Schalke's erratic season continued as the Champions League semifinalists lost 1-0 at home to Kaiserslautern ahead of Tuesday's visit by English leaders Manchester United.
The winner came four minutes before halftime as Adam Hlousek played in Srdjan Lakic and the Croatian striker beat goalkeeper Manuel Neuer, who announced this week that he is poised to leave Schalke after deciding not to extend his contract.
Kaiserslautern's first win at Schalke in more than a decade lifted the promoted club to eight points above third-bottom Wolfsburg.
St. Pauli, however, look set for an immediate return to the second division after the 3-1 home defeat by Werder Bremen left the club bottom.
Fin Bartels put St. Pauli ahead in the first half, but Markus Thorandt put through his own net five minutes after the break.
Then Peruvian striker Claudio Pizarro scored twice in 60 seconds with less than 20 minutes to play to lift Bremen up to 10th, a point above Kaiserslautern.
Stuttgart also eased any relegation fears with a 3-0 win at home to seventh-placed Hamburg, moving seven points clear of Wolfsburg.
Germany striker Cacau opened the scoring in the sixth minute and rounded off the day after substitute Christian Gentner doubled the lead with 12 to play.
In Sunday's other game, fifth-placed Mainz travel to fellow Europa League hopefuls Nuremberg.
