A man matching the description of the suspect in a fatal workplace shooting in Cupertino, California, was killed Thursday morning when he brandished a weapon, authorities said.
Santa Clara County Sheriff Laurie Smith said positive identification of the man killed in Sunnyvale, a Bay Area city that borders Cupertino, must come through the coroner.
But he is believed to be Shareff Allman, who is about 45 years old. CNN affiliate KGO reported the man's first name was spelled Shareef.
After SWAT teams canvassed neighborhoods, three deputies on routine patrol found a man crouched beside a vehicle at a residence, Smith said.
"The deputies identified him as the suspect. He did display in a threatening manner a firearm," Smith said. All three deputies opened fire, killing him.
The suspect died within the perimeter of Wednesday's manhunt, but it was not clear if he spent any time in a home before he was spotted, Smith told reporters.
The workplace shooting occurred Wednesday about 4:15 a.m. at the Permanente Quarry, which produces cement products, Smith said. Authorities believe Allman, armed with a handgun and an assault rifle, entered a meeting and opened fire.
Two people died at the scene, Smith said, and a third was pronounced dead later at a hospital. Six others were wounded.
The motive was still not clear Thursday. Smith described Allman as a "disgruntled employee."
According to Santa Clara County sheriff's Sgt. Jose Cardoza, witnesses reported the incident lasted "no more than two minutes."
Allman also was believed to be involved in an attempted carjacking that occurred around 7 a.m. Wednesday on the Hewlett-Packard campus in Cupertino, about five miles away from the quarry, Smith said. A woman was shot and sustained non-life-threatening injuries. The suspect did not obtain the woman's car, the sheriff said. He is believed to have fled on foot.
Cardoza said the weapon used in the attempted carjacking was a handgun similar to that used in the workplace shooting.
Authorities found Allman's vehicle at a service station close to the site of the attempted carjacking, Smith said. Police recovered two assault rifles, she said.
Allman has a "minor criminal record," the sheriff said, with the latest incident in 1996.
KGO reported that Allman is a community television host who regularly preaches about nonviolence.
