The Canadian woman who was rescued last week after being stranded and alone for 49 days in a Nevada wilderness was upgraded to good from fair condition Tuesday, an Idaho hospital spokesman said.
Rita Chretien, 56, is tolerating solid food very well, continuing her physical therapy and showing high spirits, according to a statement by St. Luke's Magic Valley Medical Center in Twin Falls, Idaho.
Meanwhile, authorities are still searching for her husband, Albert, who left his wife in their van on March 22 so that he could find help.
"She is enjoying solid foods and had a dinner of salmon, rice and green beans last night," the spokesman's statement said Tuesday. "This morning she had a breakfast burrito with homemade salsa. A 'bowl of soul' coffee was brought to her from a local coffee house. It included a sprinkle of cinnamon, nutmeg and a dollop of whipped cream, which Rita said was delicious."
Doctors said the indicators of her recovery are "very good," the spokesman said.
Scores of men and women had searched for the Chretiens since the Penticton, British Columbia, residents were last seen March 19 leaving a Shell gas station convenience store in Baker City, Oregon.
On Friday, more than a month later, hunters wandered into the area where the van was sitting.
Rita Chretien shot up from her spot in the 2000 Chevrolet Astro's back seat when she heard them outside, mustered strength to open the door and stepped out shoeless. She waved.
While the odds are dwindling that Albert Chretien will be found alive, authorities haven't ruled it out.
Rita Chretien lived off the little food she had -- beef jerky, some trail mix, fish oil pills and one piece of hard candy per day. She went outside for a walk once a day, using the sunlight to melt snow for drinking water and going to a nearby stream.
She read a few books (some several times) and the Bible and recorded her thoughts in a journal.
The Chretiens were en route to a trade show convention in Las Vegas when they turned off the highway onto a forest service road that led into Nevada, intending to enjoy the "scenic route," her son said, who'd heard the full story from his weakened mother.
The couple took some wrong turns and had thought, based on their map, that their road was better than it was. Pictures released by the sheriff's department show the van in an extremely remote area with no visible roads. The van was stuck in caked mud, with a shovel pictured near the back of the van, indicating that someone had been trying to free the vehicle from the mud.
CNN's Michael Martinez contributed to this story.
