(CNN Student News) -- March 27, 2014
Science, politics, geography, and math all factor in to Thursday's edition of CNN Student News! If you've never heard of the latitudinal Roaring Forties, you can't fathom why fish would travel by truck, and you don't know what the record is for Girl Scout cookie sales, you won't want to miss this show.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What audio and video elements might a journalist want to include when reporting on a meeting of two world leaders?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Roman Catholic Church
2. National Labor Relations Board
3. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. With whom is President Obama scheduled to meet at the Vatican today? According to the report: What are some issues on which these two leaders disagree? On which issues do they have similar viewpoints? How might their personalities factor in to how they collaborate on issues on which they agree? Why do some experts predict a positive, friendly meeting between the two?
2. What is the latest lead in the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? When was this debris found? What happened when planes searched the area yesterday? What may be responsible for this? How is geography presenting a challenge to the search? What is an AUV? How does it create a map of the ocean floor?
3. What has Chicago's regional National Labor Relations Board ruled regarding a case brought by football players at Northwestern University? What was the rationale for this decision? How has the university responded? If the decision is upheld, how might it impact college sports in the future?
4. Why are Chinook salmon at the Coleman National Fish Hatchery being loaded onto trucks? Where are the trucks taking them? What weather condition in California is jeopardizing salmon spawning season?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you think that President Obama and Pope Francis will discuss in their meeting? If they disagree on any of these topics, what conclusions, if any, might they reach? What do you think is the purpose of a meeting between world leaders who might disagree on some major issues? How might they collaborate on other issues?
2. Do you agree or disagree with the decision by the regional National Labor Relations Board allowing Northwestern University's football players to unionize? State your rationale.
3. The salmon transportation seen in the video is one consequence of the drought being faced in some parts of the U.S. What other effects do you think drought could have on a region's environment and economy?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
