A Los Angeles County judge ordered former NFL star and rape defendant Darren Sharper to be held without bail Thursday in the wake of additional charges in Arizona.
Sharper, 38, was being held on $1 million bail connected with charges of drugging and raping two women in the Los Angeles area, but Judge Renee Korn removed the bail and ordered him to remain in jail after this week's announcement that an Arizona grand jury has indicted Sharper.
Sharper's next court date in Los Angeles is March 24.
A grand jury in Tempe, Arizona, indicted Sharper on two counts of sexual assault and three counts of administering dangerous drugs relating to an incident alleged to have happened on November 21, Tempe police said Wednesday.
Authorities have said Sharper, 38, is under investigation in three other states -- Louisiana, Nevada and Florida -- in cases of alleged sexual assault.
So far, he has been charged only in California and Arizona.
New Orleans police have issued an arrest warrant for Sharper. Another man accused in the New Orleans case, Erik Nunez, was charged last week with two counts of aggravated rape and released on $400,000 bail on Monday, CNN affiliate WVUE reported.
The application for the arrest warrant says New Orleans detectives interviewed two women who said they were raped on September 23. The two accusers told police they were so impaired they don't recall "the entirety of the sexual intercourse," and that they never agreed to have sex.
In February, Sharper pleaded not guilty in the Los Angeles County court to charges of rape by use of drugs, furnishing a controlled substance and possession of a controlled substance, all felonies. Those alleged rapes occurred in January and last October, authorities said. His attorneys said he maintains any sex was consensual.
In the Florida investigation, a woman in January filed a sexual battery complaint in Miami Beach against Sharper relating to a 2012 incident, a police report said.
Miami Beach Police said they are investigating the case.
Sharper played for the Green Bay Packers, Minnesota Vikings and New Orleans Saints from 1997 through the 2010 season. The five-time Pro Bowl player intercepted 63 passes in his career, tying for seventh all-time; he is tied for second all-time in interceptions returned for touchdowns with 11, according to Pro-Football-Reference.com.
He was recently fired as an NFL Network analyst.
