February 20, 2015
Welcome to Friday's edition of CNN Student News! Today, our coverage begins with a report on an international meeting in the U.S. capital. That's followed by an explanation of "cryptocurrencies," defining the term, its uses and its limitations. And we tell you about a new application that's brought about a network of people helping others.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. In what North African nation, a border country of Egypt, did Egyptian fighter planes launch strikes against the ISIS terrorist group this week?
2. What U.S. capital landmark is associated with the myth that only men were allowed to ride its elevator to prevent any risk to women and children?
3. Warner Bros.' secret movie prop archive is located on the outskirts of what European city?
4. About what percentage of the U.S. population is composed by people of Hispanic or Latino descent, the largest ethnic or race minority in the country?
5. Bertha, a massive digging machine, was named after the first female mayor of what U.S. city?
6. Ash Wednesday marks the first day of what Christian religious season?
7. What event triggers the world's largest annual human migration?
8. During what international economic crisis did the U.S. government institute the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)?
9. In the 7th Century, the first-ever banknotes were traded in what Asian country?
10. Dating back to the 9th Century, Castilian is a dialect of what world language?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
