As Typhoon Haiyan's trail of destruction in the Philippines unfolds, CNN reporters have been on the ground from the beginning building up a picture of the devastation and heartache caused by the most powerful-ever storm to make landfall.
Click on the videos below to follow their powerful stories.
Andrew Stevens was in Tacloban when Haiyan hit. It was the first major population center in the region to feel the wrath of the super typhoon.
Four days after this town of more than 220,000 people was reduced to rubble, he witnesses the devastation with Tacloban's horrified mayor.
Nick Paton Walsh takes a drive through the storm-battered city at night. He says most people are seeking shelter in the wreckage of houses or in what remains of the Church's infrastructure -- with the occasional fire bringing light to this eerily dark town.
While fears remain about looters and other security issues, he says the police and military appear in control, on the main roads at least.
Paula Hancocks, who is also in Tacloban, has seen the suffering of the local population -- especially young children -- first hand.
But from the ashes of disaster, she sees signs of hope, with babies born -- and surviving -- in the most atrocious conditions.
Anna Coren, meanwhile, accompanies a Philippines military aid flight as authorities attempt to deliver supplies to those desperately in need.
Situated where the Philippines meets the Pacific Ocean, the town of Guiuan had the look and feel of a tropical paradise. Unfortunately, its location on Samar Island's southeastern tip turned out to be a curse.
It was cut off from outside communication and many basic necessities until recently, when a C-130 military cargo plane flew over the ravaged area and landed at its small airport.
Ivan Watson reports from a military airbase in Cebu City, which has become a key hub in the relief effort.
He speaks to a group of young Filipino men who showed up with food they collected to be sent out as aid. They say they were moved to help after seeing aerial pictures of how towns such as Guiuan had been completely cut off after the storm hit.
Are you there? Send us your images and video but please stay safe.
