(CNN)  -- England striker Wayne Rooney has changed his mind and signed a new five-year contract at English Premier League side Manchester United, the club announced Friday.
Rooney said on Wednesday that he wanted to leave the Manchester giants, after complaining they lacked ambition, but has now agreed a deal which ties him to Old Trafford until at least June 2015.
The shock development comes after a day of talks Thursday between manager Alex Ferguson, the club's chief executive David Gill and Rooney's representatives.
Ferguson, admitted he had been "shocked and disappointed" that his star forward wanted to leave the club, but said the club would now "get behind" Rooney after his change of heart.
How CNN pundit correctly predicted U-turn
Rooney, who has struggled for form this season after lackluster displays for England in their dismal World Cup campaign, explained his jaw-dropping U-turn.
"In the last couple of days, I have talked to the manager and the owners and they have convinced me this is where I belong," he told the club's official website.
"I said on Wednesday the manager is a genius and it is his belief and support that have convinced me to stay.
"I'm signing a new deal in the absolute belief that the management, coaching staff, board and owners are totally committed to making sure United maintains its proud winning history -- which is the reason I joined the club in the first place."
Ferguson was delighted he had persuaded Rooney to stay after he looked set to exit Old Trafford in the January transfer window.
Ferguson shows his genius in Rooney affair
"Sometimes, when you're in a club, it can be hard to realize just how big it is and it takes something like the events of the last few days to make you understand. I think Wayne now understands what a great club Manchester United is," he said.
"I'm pleased he has accepted the challenge to guide the younger players and establish himself as one of United's great players. It shows character and belief in what we stand for.
"I'm sure everyone involved with the club will now get behind Wayne and show him the support he needs to produce the performances we know he is capable of."
United urge fans to be patient over Rooney
Rooney, who injured his troublesome ankle in training Tuesday, will be out of action for up to three weeks, and could make his return against arch-rivals Manchester City.
A move to cash-rich City looked the most likely as Rooney decided his future, a prospect which angered fans of the Red Devils who protested outside the striker's Cheshire home on Thursday night.
Little did they know that Rooney had changed his mind, after the club had put out a holding statement earlier in the evening, urging fans to show patience.
The 24-year-old's original deal was due to run out at the end of next season, but his agent Paul Stretford told United on August 14 that Rooney wanted to leave the club he joined from Everton in 2004.
Ferguson eventually broke the news of Rooney's apparent departure only last  Tuesday after intense media speculation.
