Rory McIlroy and Adam Scott showed they were rolling into top form ahead of next month's U.S. Open with impressive victories on either side of the Atlantic Sunday.
McIlroy put his personal difficulties behind him -- he broke off his engagement to tennis star Caroline Wozniacki earlier in the week -- to win the European Tour's flagship event at Wentworth, while Scott lived up to his billing as the new world number one with a playoff success in the Colonial event in Texas.
Both carded final rounds of 66 to achieve their wins, McIlroy by a shot from Ireland's Shane Lowry at the European PGA Championships, while Aussie Scott had to go to extra holes to beat Jason Dufner.
In doing so, he put paid to the chances of Sweden's Henrik Stenson snatching the top spot in the rankings.
Stenson had earlier finished seventh behind McIlroy and needed Scott to finish lower than 13th to claim the status.
But there was no danger of that as the 2013 U.S Masters champion rolled home several clutch putts in his four-under effort.
He was tied on nine-under 271 with American Dufner, who also shot a 66, but finally prevailed at the third playoff hole.
"It's so satisfying in so many ways to get it done," Scott told the PGA Tour official website. He had been four-over-par early in his first round before battling back through the field.
The 25-year-old McIlroy also trailed for much of the four rounds on the famous West Course, being seven shots behind tournament leader Thomas Bjorn going into the final round.
But Bjorn, who opened with a superb 62, finished with a round 13 shots more for a 75 to open the door for the likes of McIlroy.
"I played well, I played solid but I struggled Friday," McIlroy admitted afterwards.
"I was fortunate today a few people made mistakes ahead of me, and I took advantage of that," he added, referencing Bjorn's collapse from taking a five-shot lead into the last day.
Yet the tournament had been overshadowed by the media storm that followed McIlroy's announcement he was to split Wozniacki.
The on-off relationship had been followed as keenly in gossip columns as it had on the sports pages, but the announcement, coming shortly after the wedding invites had been sent out, had created a cloud of publicity that stubbornly followed McIlroy around Wentworth.
"The wedding invitations issued at the weekend made me realize that I wasn't ready for all that marriage entails," McIlroy said in a statement released to the press.
"There is no right way to end a relationship that has been so important to two people ... I wish Caroline all the happiness she deserves and thank her for the great times we've had. I will not be saying anything more about our relationship in any setting."
McIlroy later admitted that focusing on golf helped him forget about his personal issues and as the week went on he found top form.
His final round, included an eagle and six birdies, the final two on the 17th and 18th to post a 14-under total which could not be matched.
His Irish friend Lowry got closest, finishing a shot back, with two-time Luke Donald and Bjorn tied for third on 12-under.
It was McIlroy's first victory in Europe for 18 months and stands him in good stead ahead of his challenge in the U.S. Open at Pinehurst where he will be bidding to add to his 2011 success in the major.
Scott and 2013 PGA Championship winner Dufner will also be hoping to carry their fine weekend form into the second major of the season in search of their own second triumph at golf's highest level.
