The Senate's financial rescue plan may have a better chance of passage because it's padded with pork that may be tasty enough to get reluctant House members to bite.
Lawmakers added billions in tax incentives to the bailout bill to help it pass the House.
Most of the $110 billion in additions, such as a tax credit for research and development and an increase in insurance for bank accounts, would have broad economic impact.
The benefits of others, though, may not be so evident to most taxpayers.
For example, the proposal includes an excise tax exemption for a very specific type of arrow used by child archers.  View details of the incentives »
According to Steve Ellis of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a nonpartisan watchdog group, current law places an excise tax of 39 cents on the first sale by the manufacturer, producer or importer of any shaft of a type used to produce certain types of arrows.  Watch where's the pork? »
"This proposal would exempt from the excise tax any shaft consisting of all natural wood with no laminations or artificial means to enhance the spine of the shaft used in the manufacture of an arrow that measures 5/16 of an inch or less and is unsuited for use with a bow with a peak draw weight of 30 pounds or more," Ellis wrote.
The estimated cost of the proposal is $2 million over 10 years, he wrote.  Follow the progress of the $700 billion bailout plan »
Oregon Sens. Ron Wyden, a Democrat, and Gordon Smith, a Republican, were the initial sponsors of the arrow provision. According to Bloomberg News, the earmark provision would be worth $200,000 a year to Rose City Archery in Myrtle Point, Oregon.
A Wyden aide said the Oregon senator did not ask that the provision be added to bailout package, but that doesn't fly with Ellis.
"The bottom line is, this is benefiting a very few manufacturers, and I think most Americans who are either concerned about the bailout package or concerned about the economy are going to be wondering why a provision benefiting wooden arrow manufacturers is catching a ride on the package," Ellis said.
The Taxpayers for Common Sense also reports that the proposal includes such mouthwatering morsels as these:
CNN's Scott J. Anderson, Brian Todd and Jim Kavanagh contributed to this report.
