UEFA has had a busy time of it during Euro 2012 handing out fines and sanctions to various federations for undesirable behavior.
No stone has been left unturned in the pursuit of sporting decency, and European football's governing body has now turned its roving eye to Nicklas Bendtner's underwear.
The Denmark striker is in hot water with UEFA after celebrating his equalizing goal in Denmark's match Portugal on Wednesday by lowering his shorts to reveal the inscription of Paddy Power -- an Irish bookmaker.
Bendtner scored twice but Denmark slipped to a 3-2 defeat in Lviv, and the Arsenal player could face further disappointment after the UEFA Control and Disciplinary Body sit to consider the matter on Monday.
"Disciplinary proceedings have been opened against Denmark's Nicklas Bendtner for improper conduct (Law four of the Laws of the Game) at the UEFA EURO 2012 Group B match against Portugal in Lviv on Wednesday 13 June," said a UEFA statement.
Law four of the laws of the games as outlined by FIFA, the global body which governs soccer, relates to the equipment and attire players can wear.
In relation to undershorts, it states: "If undershorts are worn, they must be of the same main color as the shorts."
Torres inspires Spain to Ireland rout
Russia has already been fined and handed a suspended points deduction for improper conduct against the Czech Republic, while also still awaiting the verdict of a UEFA investigation into alleged racist chanting during the Group A match.
Meanwhile, the Croatian Federation was also fined $32,000 on Friday for failing to control it's fans during Sunday's 3-1 victory over Republic of Ireland.
The punishment was issued after fans threw fireworks and missiles onto the pitch, while one supporter also entered the field of play.
The German Football Federation was fined $12,500 after its fans threw paper onto the pitch during a meeting with Portugal, with the Iberian team also ordered to pay $6,250 for delaying the start of the second half.
