(InStyle.com) -- A hit TV show. An Emmy. A summer blockbuster. A new company. A wedding! Katherine Heigl has every reason to smile for our camera. A star -- and a trio of gorgeous looks -- is born.
The Ingénue: "This is my favorite look of the three just because it's sexy but not overtly so," Heigl says. "I like simple hair and makeup."
There has been a self-tanning mishap
As Katherine Heigl crosses the parking lot of the sandwich shop at the Roosevelt Golf Course at Griffith Park in Los Angeles, she walks stiffly, holding her arms away from her like a paper doll and apologizing profusely for running 10 minutes late.
Earlier, she'd sprayed her entire body with self-tanner, which refused to dry. She resorted to having her fiancé, musician Josh Kelley, take a blow-dryer to her (didn't work). So here she is, in a strapless, ankle-length Juicy Couture sundress (donned to accommodate the residual stickiness), fanning herself and wondering how mottled the tan will be when (or if) the lotion ever sets.
Not that one bum experience could turn her off beauty products.
"I love everything new," says Heigl, 28, who, in addition to being nominated for an Emmy for best supporting actress on "Grey's Anatomy," just started a production company at Fox. "When I was in Rhode Island filming this summer, I went to Sephora for the first time. It was like my holy mecca."
She recently had her bathroom vanity renovated with a high counter to make more room for the large drawers below that hold her well-organized loot. Then there's her deal with Coty to be the face of Nautica's new women's fragrance in January.
Considering this fondness for all things beauty -- as well as Heigl's impressive acting range -- she plays TV dramedy as deftly as cinematic romantic comedy, as in the mega-hit "Knocked Up" and next year's 27 Dresses -- it seems natural for her to be In Style's first ever triple-cover girl.
These three looks take her from girl-next-door to red-carpet knockout to pixie-coiffed vamp. The star, whom pals call Katie (and Hollywood calls the Next Big Thing), popped out her retainer to talk about makeup, breakouts and what boys like.
KATHERINE HEIGL: I'm so sorry, I have to take out my Invisalign before I eat.
IN STYLE: Who knew you wore them? I guess that's the point of Invisalign.
KH: I got them because of this wonky tooth. I was like, OK, I can't take it. It's awesome because every two weeks you switch to a new retainer. Pretty much the perfect way to describe Invisalign is Netflix for your teeth.
IS: Right -- the things we do for beauty. So, how did you like being transformed into three such different looks?
KH: It was fun. I was working with such great hair and makeup people. And to have these professionals turning you into someone else is pretty neat.
IS: Do you ever go without makeup?
KH: There was a time when I would. Now that I get followed by photographers, I'm really paranoid about it. I do not want to be the "Look What This Celebrity Looks Like Without Makeup" picture. I'm clearly vain, and I don't need that. Plus, I like products.
IS: How often do you go through your drawers and purge?
KH: Often, because people send me a lot of stuff now, which is exciting. I love getting those boxes. [Into the tape recorder:] Send me a box of makeup, Stila! When that happens, I feel like I have to clean out and give stuff to my sister, mom and friends because there comes a point of gluttony that I can't accept.
IS: How do you think you express your personality through style?
KH: I'm a big hair-up person. Last night at work they put my hair in two French braids to keep it flat under the scrub cap. I thought it looked cute and that I could pull it off after I'd slept on it. And ... no. So I thought I could recreate it myself ... no again.
As far as clothing style goes, I fluctuate almost as much as I do with beauty products. I like to shop for sweaters -- maybe it's the New Englander in me. I'm building a house in the mountains in Utah, so I tell myself I'm "preparing" for that. I like sweaters -- they're like scrubs -- you don't have to suck it in or worry about the bloat.
IS: Do you know how you want your hair and makeup at your wedding?
KH: I have an idea, but it's so dependent on the dress, and I haven't gotten there yet. My sister is getting married too, so we looked for dresses together. After about five stores I was like, "I'm done." Everyone says, "You just know when you put that dress on." My sister found the right dress just like that. So I know it can happen. But it's grueling.
IS: Wait, so your mom has two daughters getting married within months?
KH: My poor mother is probably like, "Why, God? Why?" But I hired a planner. I want the day to be spectacular, but mostly I want it to be fun. And I don't want to freak out or stress.
IS: Does your fiancé have any particular opinions about your look?
KH: Josh wouldn't mind if my hair was brown, if it was still long -- that's such a boy thing.
IS: Would you ever wear a wig out?
KH: I'd contemplate it, but I don't know if I actually have the courage to pull it off. I once wore a long hair-extension ponytail, and someone asked me if it was real, like I was one of those dolls when we were little, and the hair just cranks out.
IS: How would you describe your skin?
KH: My skin is sensitive, so everything bothers it. And I'm the jerk who keeps switching products and making it worse.
IS: How do you treat a breakout?
KH: I got a great product at Ona Spa called Sebuspot. I've tried so many that were disappointments, but maybe I stand too close to the mirror examining my pores. If I backed up, things might look fine.
IS: What do you always carry in your bag?
KH: Powder, because I get shiny. And lip balm, either the Smith's Rosebud Salve or C.O. Bigelow's Mentha Lip Shine in Black Cherry Soda from Bath & Body Works. It's shiny with a little shimmer and tastes so good.
IS: An In Style.com reader wants to know how you maintain a healthy body image in Hollywood.
KH: I train with Harley Pasternak. I love him with my whole soul and follow his 5-Factor diet. I first said, "I'm never going to be -- nor do I want to be -- an uber-athletic girl." It's just not me and I don't have that kind of discipline. He said, "I just want you to be healthy." A lot of what we focus on is posture. I slump into myself when I get stressed. If I were going to play an action hero, I'd have to get that look. But I'd never maintain it. For me it's never about achieving a look that's impossible. E-mail to a friend
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2007 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
