FIFA will meet with Interpol on Monday as soccer's governing body continues its bid to stamp out illegal gambling and match-fixing, it announced on Friday.
FIFA president Joseph Blatter and the international crime-fighting organization's secretary general Ronald Noble will then face the press later that day.
The announcement came after British newspaper The Daily Telegraph reported that FIFA's investigation centered on a Singapore-born convicted match-fixer who was based near London's Wembley Stadium -- the home of England's national football team.
"The threat from match-fixing to the integrity of the global game is significant," FIFA's head of security Chris Eaton told the paper.
"England is the home of football and London is a global financial center so it does not surprise me that the financial aspects of this activity lead to London."
FIFA investigates officials amid match-fixing claims
More than 300 club and international matches are under scrutiny, including two friendlies involving Bolivia, Latvia, Estonia and Bulgaria in Turkey in February.
"Interviews with those involved have told us that that fixers can spend upwards of $300,000 to stage a friendly international and they do that with the expectation of a significant profit margin," said Eaton, who formerly worked for Interpol.
"Our information is that we are talking about tens of millions of dollars in profit from each successful fix."
The Telegraph said the main suspect at this stage was Raj Perumal, who was convicted of match-fixing in Singapore in 1995 and fled his home country last year.
He has been held in Finland since February, the Telegraph said, and has been linked to the two matches in Antalya that month that saw all seven goals scored from the penalty spot.
Blatter plans final term as Bin Hammam calls for change
Meanwhile, former FIFA executive committee member Amos Adamu has appealed against his three-year suspension for allegedly agreeing to accept bribes in the build-up to the votes for the 2018 and 2022 World Cup tournaments.
The Nigerian has turned to the Court of Arbitration for Sport in order order to overturn the FIFA Appeal Committee's decision to ban him from any activity related to football at national and international level.
CAS said that Ahongalu Fusimalohi, former general secretary of the Tonga Football Association, had also appealed against his two-year ban by FIFA for similar offenses.
FIFA suspend officials amid allegations of World Cup bid corruption
The "bribes for votes" scandal took another twist earlier this week when the president of the South American football confederation claimed he received an invitation to last month's British royal wedding the day before the December 2 ballot in Zurich.
Nicolas Leoz said he received it when he had breakfast with Prince William, who is president of the English Football Association and was a key figure in the nation's ultimately unsuccessful bid to host the 2018 event.
"No-one from FIFA was offered an invitation to the wedding in return for their vote, I can categorically state that," a spokesman for the prince told the UK Press Association on Wednesday.
