Wayne Rooney ensured he hit the headlines for all the right reasons by ending his international goal drought during England's 3-1 Group G win over Switzerland in Euro 2012 qualifying.
The Manchester United striker was hit by allegations about his private life in the British press at the weekend but shrugged off the controversy to register his first goal for England in 11 games.
He converted Glen Johnson's cross to open the scoring before Manchester City winger Adam Johnson made it 2-0 in the second half after Switzerland's Stephan Lichtsteiner had been sent off.
Though 18-year-old Xherdan Shaqiri pulled one back for the hosts with a spectacular strike, Sunderland striker Darren Bent made the game safe with a late third for England.
In the group's other game Elsad Zverotic's goal was enough to hand Montenegro a surprise 1-0 in Belgium.
Managerless Portugal continued their disappointing start to the campaign as they were beaten 1-0 by Norway in Group H.
Coach Carlos Queiroz is serving a six-month ban following an incident involving an anti-doping team before the 2010 World Cup and in his absence Portugal are struggling.
Erik Huseklepp scored the only goal of the game after 21 minutes to leave Portugal with just one point from two games as Norway went top.
Morten Skoubo netted a late winner for Denmark as they beat Iceland in the group's other game.
France bounced back from their shock defeat to Belarus on Friday by winning 2-0 against Bosnia-Herzegovina in Group D.
Real Madrid striker Karim Benzema opened the scoring on 72 minutes before Chelsea's Florent Malouda grabbed the second.
Elsewhere in Group D, Hamdi Salihi's goal gave Albania a 1-0 victory over Luxembourg while Belarus and Romania drew 0-0.
Miroslav Klose scored twice as Germany maintained their 100 per cent record in Group A by thrashing Azerbaijan 6-1.
Heiko Westermann, Lukas Podolski, Holger Badstuber and a Rashad Sadygov own goal completed the rout in Munich.
In Istanbul, Turkey made it two wins out of two in their qualification campaign as they beat Belgium 3-2 thanks to a late goal from Arda Turan.
Bayern Munich defender Daniel Van Buyten scored twice for Belgium, who had Vincent Kompany sent off.
Late goals from Roland Linz and Erwin Hoffer helped Austria to a 2-0 win over Kazakhstan in Vienna.
In Group C, Italy hammered the Faroe Islands 5-0. Alberto Gilardino, Daniele De Rossi, Antonio Cassano, Fabio Quagliarella and Andrea Pirlo all got on the scoresheet as the Azzurri went top of the table.
In the group's other game a late goal from Nikola Zigic rescued a draw for Serbia against Slovenia.
Russia were beaten 1-0 at home by Slovakia in Group F. Miroslav Stoch scored the only goal for the visitors.
Elsewhere, Spurs striker Robbie Keane scored for Ireland as they beat Andorra 3-1 in Dublin, while Macedonia and Armenia drew 2-2.
Schalke striker Klaas-Jan Huntelaar scored twice for the Netherlands as they beat Finland 2-1 in Group E.
But Sweden are top of the group after they thrashed San Marino 6-0. AC Milan striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored two goals in the rout.
Hungary beat Moldova 2-1 thanks to goals from Gergely Rudolf and Vladimir Koman.
