Australia captain Ricky Ponting insists it is "absolutely possible" that his side can regain the Ashes by thrashing England 5-0.
Ponting's side surrendered the famous urn to their bitter rivals last year when England won the Test series 2-1 on home soil.
But the last time England travelled to Australia as holders, in 2006, they were beaten in all five Test matches.
And Ponting, 35, now believes his new-look side -- who have won eight of their last ten Test matches -- are capable of a repeat performance when the series gets underway in November.
Asked if Australia could whitewash England Ponting told reporters: "It's absolutely possible. There's no reason why not. We've learnt from a lot of the mistakes that we've made.
"There's no doubt we made some mistakes in the last Ashes series in England that cost us the series. But we know now that we're a more experienced and probably a better team now than we were then."
Many of Australia's so-called 'golden generation' have retired in recent years including leg spin bowler Shane Warne, seam bowler Glenn McGrath and batsmen Matthew Hayden and Justin Langer, leaving Ponting to mould a younger side.
They have been in good form of late but were recently held to a 1-1 Test series draw by Pakistan when the two sides met in England. Yet England are already 2-0 up in their own four Test series with Pakistan, with two games played.
When the teams last met England won a seesaw series 2-1, thanks to a dramatic victory at the Oval in the final Test when Jonathan Trott scored a century on his debut.
And Trott suggested Ponting may have put unnecessary pressure on his team by talking up their chances of a resounding victory.
Speaking ahead of the third Test with Pakistan, he told reporters: "I don't know Ponting that well -- I don't know his character or what he would be meaning saying stuff like that.
"But if I were to say something like that I'd find it put pressure on me and the team more than if we just go about our business like I know we will."
