(CNN Student News) -- November 7, 2013
As CNN Student News reports on some election results from Tuesday, we examine what one governor's statewide electability might indicate about a potential White House run. We also discuss a U.S. Supreme Court case concerning government and religion. Plus, we cover stories about recovered art in Germany and reflected sunlight in Norway.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were producing a news story involving individuals who were hesitant to comment to the media, where would you go for information? How could you verify that the information you found was correct?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. electability
2. First Amendment to the Constitution
3. masterpiece
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What were the results of yesterday's elections in New York City, Virginia and New Jersey?
2. What portion of the year is Rjukan, Norway in the shade? Why? How did the town recently address this issue?
3. What new details have emerged about alleged player misconduct involving some members of the Miami Dolphins football team? What did people in the report say about these allegations?
Discussion Questions:
1. Can local or state elections be considered good predictors for future national elections? Why or why not? In your view, what qualities are most important in a candidate for public office?
2. How do you interpret the First Amendment as it pertains to religion? What do you think might be some different perspectives on having a prayer before a public meeting?
3. What are some possible outcomes for recovered artwork that was lost or stolen during World War II? In your view, what should happen to this art?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
New York City; Virginia; New Jersey
Europe
Munich, Germany; Norway
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
