Juventus are back on top of the Italian Serie A table after a comfortable 3-0 home win over Palermo on Sunday maintained their unbeaten start to the season.
Goals from Simone Pepe, Alessandro Matri and Claudio Marchisio put Juve ahead of Lazio, who drew 0-0 at Napoli on Saturday, on goal difference -- with Antonio Conte's side also having a vital game in hand.
Pepe opened the scoring in the 20th minute when he was left unmarked to head home Giorgio Chiellini's cross.
Andrea Pirlo then hit the post with a curling effort before Matri doubled the advantage three minutes into the second half when finishing from a tight angle.
And the points were sealed in the 65th minute when Marchisio netted from close range after a smart dummy from Matri deceived the Palermo defense.
Although Juventus are back on top of the table, the race for this year's Scudetto promises to be the tightest for years with just one point separating the top four teams.
Champions AC Milan are third, a point behind the top two, after their goalless draw at Fiorentina on Saturday, while former leaders Udinese are now in fourth place -- level on points with Milan -- after losing 2-0 at Parma.
A Jonathan Biabiany header and a Sebastian Giovinco penalty gave Parma a victory that lifted them up to ninth place in the table.
Despite their defeat to Juventus, Palermo remain fifth, although they are five points behind Udinese.
Meanwhile, at the bottom of the table, Marco Parolo scored seven minutes from time to give Cesena their first win of the season, 1-0 at fellow strugglers Bologna.
Despite that win, Cesena remain bottom on six points, one behind Novara who were beaten 1-0 at Genoa.
Two matches were played in the German Bundesliga, with Thorsten Fink collecting his first win as Hamburg coach with a 2-0 success at Hoffenheim.
Jose Guerrero and Marcel Jansen secured Fink's maiden success after three successive draws as Hamburg moved out of the relegation zone and into 14th place.
The day's other match saw Austrian striker Martin Harnik score both of Stuttgart's goals in a 2-1 win over bottom club Augsburg, who are three points adrift at the foot of the table.
The victory lifts Stuttgart up to sixth place in the table, seven points adrift of leaders Bayern Munich.
