Teenager Patrick Cantlay has brushed aside talk about turning professional after becoming the first amateur golfer to card 60 on the PGA Tour.
The 19-year-old claimed the halfway lead at the Travelers Championship with his 10-under-par effort, which put him one shot clear of fellow American Johnson Wagner in Cromwell, Connecticut in the race for the $1.08 million first prize.
Freshman Cantlay, who was the best-placed amateur at this month's U.S. Open as he tied for 21st, said he wanted to complete his degree at the University of California in Los Angeles before deciding whether to join the paid ranks.
"I'm not thinking about it right now. I'm going to try and take care of business this week and then see what's going on," the player from Long Beach, California told the PGA Tour website.
Cantlay took advantage of soft greens at TPC River Highlands to beat the course record by one shot, having earlier completed a first-round 67.
He is seeking to become the first amateur to win a PGA Tour event since Phil Mickelson in 1991. If successful, he will then have two months to decide whether to accept a tour place and a two-year exemption from qualifying.
Cantlay, who turned 19 in March, would also be the youngest player to win on the circuit since 1900 -- shaving seven months off the effort of Johnny McDermott at the 1911 U.S. Open.
"I tried to have no expectations, just so I didn't limit myself," he said after becoming just the 24th player to score 60 in PGA Tour history.
He shares a coach with veteran Paul Goydos, who is one of just five players to card 59 on the American tour.
"I feel bad for the kids in college," Goydos, who missed the cut after a second-round 68 left him tied for 110th, told the PGA website.
"He said he's going to stay four years? In four years I'll be 51. That sounds like a good deal for me. I think he should get his graduate degree."
Cantlay had set a clubhouse lead of four shots when he finished his second round on Friday, but that was trimmed to one when Wagner completed a 63 on Saturday.
Fellow American Shane Bertsch matched that score to be on 10-under 130, three shots off the lead, along with Nick Watney (65).
Meanwhile, English golfer Mark Foster took a two-shot lead into the final round of the European Tour's BMW Open in Germany.
The 35-year-old, ranked 267th in the world, carded a six-under 66 in his third round on Saturday to be on 14-over 202 ahead of Sunday's finale in Munich.
Seeking his first title in eight years, Foster will be chased by a group of five players on 204 including joint halfway leader George Coetzee of South Africa, who bogeyed his last hole for a 70.
Spain's Sergio Garcia was also in that group after a nine-birdie 64, along with compatriot Pablo Larrazabal (69), England's Robert Coles (65) and South Africa's two-time major winner Retief Goosen (67).
Italian teenager Matteo Manassero, the youngest player to win a European Tour event, was four shots off the pace in ninth place after a 66.
