Fans and friends of Paul McCartney gathered in central London Sunday to watch the ex-Beatle walk down the aisle for the third time, as he married girlfriend Nancy Shevell.
The couple arrived together just before 3:30 p.m., the groom in a blue suit and the bride in a long-sleeved white gown with a white flower in her hair.
Both wore outfits by McCartney's fashion designer daughter Stella, said Monique Jessen of People magazine.
The crowd of hundreds went wild when they appeared, with one well-wisher saying of the match: "It just seems right."
McCartney, 69, and his 51-year-old bride left Marylebone Town Hall about an hour later and waved to crowds while being showered with confetti, before arriving at McCartney's home.
Ringo Starr, the only other surviving former Beatle, was there, as was iconic U.S. television host Barbara Walters, who reportedly played a role in introducing McCartney and Shevell, an American trucking heiress.
Walters is Shevell's second cousin, she said on her show "The View" in 2007.
McCartney and Shevell got engaged in May, a McCartney representative told CNN at the time.
The wedding took place at the same venue where McCartney married his first wife, Linda, in 1969.
She died of breast cancer, aged 56, in 1998.
A memorial service for her two months later was the first time McCartney, Starr and George Harrison appeared together in public since the Beatles split in 1970.
John Lennon, the fourth member of the band, was shot dead in New York in 1980.
Shevell, the bride, is the daughter of a New Jersey trucking magnate. She is an executive at her father's company, New England Motor Freight, and a 10-year member of New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
She was married once before, to lawyer Bruce Blakeman, who is active in Republican and Jewish circles in New York state. He ran unsuccessfully for Senate against Democrat Kirsten Gillibrand last year.
Her father's company has annual revenues of about $400 million, says Blakeman's biography on his law firm's website.
Press reports say they have a 19-year-old son.
Alison Cathcart, who performed McCartney's third wedding, called the venue "a rock 'n' roll place to tie the knot."
Liam Gallagher and Patsy Kensit married there, as did Melanie Griffiths and Antonio Banderas.
Cathcart has conducted marriage services for celebrities including Sylvester Stallone and Joan Collins, Westminster City Council says.
McCartney's second marriage -- to model Heather Mills -- ended in a bitter divorce in 2008 after four years. They have a daughter, Beatrice.
Mills fought for a large divorce settlement, saying McCartney had limited her ability to work as a model during their marriage and that she had acted as a psychologist to him as he grieved for his first wife.
Judge Hugh Bennett all but laughed both assertions out of court, saying her testimony was not only "inconsistent and inaccurate but less than candid."
He awarded her 24.3 million pounds ($48.6 million at the time) -- less than one-fifth of the 125 million pounds she had asked for.
Sunday would have been John Lennon's 71st birthday.
CNN's Erin McLaughlin contributed to this report.
