(CNN Student News) -- March 5, 2014
Eastern Europe, South America, North America, Africa: These are the places discussed on today's international edition of CNN Student News. You'll hear about subjects ranging from protests to poaching, and we'll even provide a lighthearted lesson about good grammar before we go.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might a news reporter take risks to cover a violent protest? In your view, are the benefits worth the risks? Explain.
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. clashes
2. budget proposal
3. poaching
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. How has the crisis in Ukraine impacted Russian markets? What is the international community considering with regard to the crisis in Ukraine? What economic ties does Russia have to other parts of Europe?
2. Why are some Venezuelans protesting their government? According to the report: How does the Venezuelan government characterize them? How do they characterize themselves? What differing views do Venezuelans have on former President Hugo Chavez?
3. How much would President Obama's 2015 federal budget spend? What would see increased government funding under this proposal? How would this be paid for? What does the president say about his proposal? What do Republicans say about it?
Discussion Questions:
1. What might be some reasons why developments in Ukraine are important to the U.S. and Russia? What might the U.S. and other countries hope to accomplish by threatening economic sanctions against Russia? What might they risk in threatening these sanctions? Why might Russian President Vladimir Putin be willing to take economic risks to remain involved in Ukraine?
2. What do you know about socialism? What makes this form of government controversial? What are some of the reasons behind violent protests in Venezuela? Can you see any potential diplomatic solutions to the unrest in Venezuela? What do you think will happen there in the days ahead?
3. How would you characterize today's report about poaching in the Republic of Congo? Why do you think that some people poach, despite the risks to themselves and to endangered species? Why might the experience of a former poacher be important to a government that wants to eradicate the practice? Do you think poaching can be stopped completely? If so, how? If not, why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
