The family of NBC cameraman Ashoka Mukpo, who contracted Ebola while working in Liberia, is cautiously optimistic after doctors said that his condition at a Nebraska hospital has improved slightly.
With developments pouring in from all corners of the world, here's what you need to know to quickly get caught up:
WEST AFRICA
No relief in sight:
The number of deaths attributed to the current Ebola outbreak has climbed to 4,033, the World Health Organization reported Friday. The tally brings the total number of confirmed, probable and suspected cases of Ebola to 8,399. The numbers were reported from Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Spain and the United States.
A possible $32 billion hit:
The outbreak could cost the African economy $32 billion over the next two years if it spreads to its larger neighbors, the World Bank estimates.
The steps some countries have taken to prevent the spread of the Ebola virus amount to "putting a towel under the door of a building on fire," World Bank president Jim Kim told CNN's Richard Quest on Thursday.
Complete coverage on Ebola
Liberia postpones election:
Liberia's President on Thursday postponed a senatorial election that had been set for next week, citing the Ebola outbreak in the country.
The nation's election commission had recommended the delay, saying that the prevalence of the virus, authorities' efforts to combat it and citizens' efforts to isolate themselves weren't conducive to a free and open election.
Officials have not yet revealed any new date for the election, which had been set for Tuesday.
U.S. troops arrive in Liberia:
A group of 90 U.S. Marines and airmen arrived in Liberia on Thursday to help Ebola response efforts, along with four V-22 Osprey aircraft and two C-130 transport planes.
Their arrival brings the total number of U.S. troops deployed in Liberia to 334, military spokesman Lt. Col. Dave Doherty said. And there are more coming. In late October, 700 troops from the 101st Airborne Division are scheduled to deploy to Liberia.
U.S. CASES
'Modest improvement' for NBC cameraman
The condition of Ashoka Mukpo, the American citizen who got infected in Liberia, has shown "very modest improvement," according to The Nebraska Medical Center, where he is being treated.
Mukpo, a cameraman for NBC, is receiving an experimental drug called brincidofovir, or CMX001.
"Mr. Mukpo's condition is slightly improved," medical director Dr. Phil Smith said. "He's been taking in some fluids and drinking Gatorade. But everyone needs to be reminded that this is still a very serious illness we're dealing with and no one has a lot of experience treating it."
Thomas Duncan dies:
Thomas Eric Duncan, the first person diagnosed with Ebola in the United States, died Wednesday, 10 days after he was admitted to Dallas' Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital. His family wonders whether the outcome would have been different if doctors had admitted Duncan to a hospital on September 25, the first time he showed up with a fever and stomach pain.
Duncan's family has criticized the care he received. The Dallas hospital that treated him says staff members did everything they could.
Ebola test negative for Dallas deputy:
An Ebola test was negative for a Dallas deputy who was hospitalized with possible symptoms of the deadly virus, officials said. The deputy, Sgt. Michael Monnig, didn't have any direct contact with Duncan but had reported contact with Duncan's family.
Physicians at Texas Health Presbyterian discharged him Thursday, soon after the negative test came back, hospital spokeswoman Candace White said.
New travel screening:
Five of America's biggest, busiest airports are beefing up measures. Now, people arriving from the three nations hardest hit by Ebola will get special screening, including having their temperature taken. The airports are: New York's JFK, Washington Dulles, Newark, Chicago O'Hare and Atlanta international airports.
IN OTHER COUNTRIES
Spain to create a committee to fight Ebola:
The Spanish government will create a special committee to tackle the Ebola crisis, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria told reporters Friday in Madrid. The committee, which will include representatives from government and health care, will coordinate national efforts to control the virus and establish protocols to deal with it, she said.
Spain ramps up response:
After a nurse's assistant in Spain became the first person to contract Ebola outside Africa, five people related to the case were being monitored in a Madrid hospital, including her husband, an emergency room doctor and the neighborhood doctor who saw her before the case was confirmed.
Sporadic infections unavoidable, the WHO says:
Sporadic Ebola infections will be unavoidable in some European countries because of direct travel from their hubs to hotspot areas in West Africa, the World Health Organization said Wednesday. But the risk of spread, it said, is avoidable and extremely low.
Australia scare:
A 57-year-old woman who returned to Australia after treating Ebola patients in Sierra Leone has been isolated at a hospital and is undergoing tests, including one for the deadly virus, authorities said. She had isolated herself at home and checked her temperature twice daily since her return, as recommended by national guidelines.
The Queensland Department of Health announced early Friday that initial tests on the woman came back negative for Ebola.
United Kingdom:
The UK's Heathrow and Gatwick airports and Eurostar railway terminals will begin screening passengers arriving from Ebola-affected Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, a government spokesman said. Screening will involve assessing passengers' recent travel history, who they have been in contact with and future travel arrangements, as well as a possible assessment performed by medical personnel.
CNN's Greg Botelho, Alexander Felton, Khushbu Shah, Saskya Vandoorne, Richard Quest, Brent Swails and Nima Elbagir contributed to this report.
