(CNN)  -- Thousands of people around the globe may find the payoff Thursday for the countless hours they have spent perfecting the most ridiculous of feats.
Chefs in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, try in September to set a record with a tub of Quaker soup, made with Quaker oats.
More than 200,000 people in 18 countries hope to make it into the "Guinness World Records" book with a variety of rather odd achievements on this day.
Students at the University of Bournemouth in the United Kingdom plan to round up more than 100 participants to set a record for the Most People Dressed as Superheroes.
Several Germans will vie to set a record for the Most Juice Extracted from Grapes by Treading.
And in New Zealand, would-be record-holders will chase glory in a race to set the Fastest Time to Peel and Eat -- what else? -- a Kiwi Fruit.
The unusual pursuits unfold worldwide as part of Guinness World Records Day. The editors of "Guinness World Records" -- universally recognized as the foremost authority on record-breaking achievement -- began celebrating the day in 2004, a year after the book sold its 100 millionth copy.
"We are very happy to see that people are still passionate and eager to achieve their goals in the midst of the global market turmoil," Editor-in-Chief Craig Glenday said in a prepared statement.
Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, shows its studious side Thursday in an effort to enter the record books for Most People Reading Simultaneously. Brazil will try to break the record for World's Largest Bread, and Japan hopes to clock the Fastest Time to Run 100 Meters On All Fours.
Various places in the United States are also getting in on the act.
New York will try for the Most Grains of Rice Eaten with Chopsticks in a Minute and Oak Park, Illinois, will host the Largest Dog Wedding. Sports network ESPN will televise attempts at the Fastest Egg and Spoon Mile and the Most Apples Cut in the Air with a Sword.
Roll your eyes if you must. But keep count of the rotations: You could be a contender next year.
