(CNN Student News) -- May 20 , 2014
Today's show is highly scientific, with reports on computer hacking software, a paleontologist's dream discovery, and a sort of drone that NASA hopes will explore other planets. We also cover a giant business deal in the telecommunications world, and we explain how zombies factor in to a military training plan.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What information would you need to gather to make a case for or against a proposed corporate merger?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. cybercrime
2. paleontologist
3. media consolidation
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is creepware? According to the video, how many people may have been victims of this malware? What crimes may have been committed using Blackshades creepware? How have authorities around the world responded to these crimes?
2. According to the video, why has the U.S. military drawn up a document for dealing with a zombie apocalypse? In what ways will this be a teaching tool?
3. What is the world's largest land animal? How does its size compare to that of a titanosaur? In what country have scientists unearthed the fossilized bones of a newly-identified species of titanosaur? What do they say about this dinosaur?
4. What government agency regulates communications in the U.S., including cable, satellite, and TV? According to the video: What pending media merger will this agency and the Department of Justice soon review? What is the concern behind this latest merger for consumers? What upside do AT&T and DirecTV say the merger will have for consumers? What is the role of the Department of Justice and the FCC in reviewing this proposed deal?
5. How much has the U.S. spent on space exploration since 1959? How many astronauts have lost their lives on missions? What is Morpheus? What advantages does it offer to NASA's space program? What kind of fuel does it use? Why is this significant? What setbacks has Morpheus had?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you know about malware? What advice might you give to friends or relatives to avoid becoming victims of different kinds of malware?
2. What factors might prompt a company to seek a merger with another? In general, when might a merger be good for consumers? When might a merger present problems for consumers?
3. Would you like to see federal regulators approve or reject the AT&T-DirecTV merger? Why?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
