Argentine midfielder Esteban Cambiasso scored the winning goal as Jose Mourinho's Inter Milan defeated former club Chelsea 2-1 in the first leg of their Champions League last 16 tie at the San Siro.
Cambiasso drilled home a low shot from 18 yards out, just four minutes after Chelsea had levelled matters, to leave the tie finely poised ahead of the second leg at Stamford Bridge in three weeks.
All the talk beforehand had been about the two coaches, Mourinho and Carlo Ancelotti -- with no love lost between the pair from when Ancelotti was in charge of Inter's rivals AC Milan, who share the San Siro with them.
Added to the mix was the fact that Mourinho was still highly-thought of by many at Chelsea after leading the club to successive league titles in 2005 and 2006.
And it was Mourinho's side who struck first, taking a third minute lead when Diego Milito cut inside John Terry before firing home a shot inside goalkeeper Petr Cech's right-hand post.
In a frantic opening 45 minutes, Didier Drogba struck the bar for Chelsea with a fierce free-kick while they also had a penalty claim for a tackle on Salomon Kalou turned down.
However, Chelsea did equalize six minute after the re-start. Fine work from right-back Branislav Ivanovic saw him skip a couple of challenges before laying the ball off to Kalou, who curled home a shot fromt he edge of the area that goalkeeper Julio Cesar should have done better with.
But Cambiasso quickly restored Inter's advantage and Cesar then made up for his error on the goal by keeping out Frank Lampard's close-range strike.
Chelsea may have to do without keeper Cech for the second leg. The Czech Republic international appeared to damage his knee while rolling the ball out and had to be stretchered off.
His possible absence would be a major blow for the London side as they fight for trophies on three fronts this season.
Meanwhile, in the evening's other Champions League tie, Primera Liga side Sevilla look favorites to progress after earning a 1-1 draw at CSKA Moscow.
Alvaro Negredo gave the Spanish side a 25th minute lead when tapping home at the far post from a pinpoint Jesus Navas cross.
But the home side levelled midway through the second half when Mark Gonzalaez, who ironically joined CSKA in the summer from Sevilla's city rivals Real Betis, fired home an unstoppable long-range drive that gave goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev no chance.
