Psy's new song "Hangover" featuring Snoop Dogg dropped three days ago and the video has already racked up more than 31 million views on YouTube.
That's actually a pretty slow start for the Korean superstar, considering "Gangnam Style" became the first video to pass two billion hits a week ago, while his follow-up single "Gentleman" also broke a record for the most views in 24 hours -- it currently has 694 million views on YouTube.
The "Hangover" video shows Psy taking Snoop on a ridiculous guided tour of what he does best -- hardcore drinking, Korean-style. This involves endless bomb shots, hanging out at a jjimjilbang (Korean bathhouse), throwing up and karaoke with strangers -- with one particularly surreal scene of Snoop, Psy and and two Korean women blithely skipping through an amusement park, presumably drunk.
True to the premise, Psy told CNN he was actually hungover when the song came out.
Promotions for the new song kicked off Sunday on Jimmy Kimmel, with the unlikely trio of Kimmel, Psy and Snoop heading to a local karaoke bar in Los Angeles and bringing the house down with their yodeling.
We asked Psy to talk about his hot new collaboration.
CNN: How were you introduced to Snoop Dogg?
Psy: My manager Scooter Braun put me in touch with him at my request. When I first wrote this track, I thought that Snoop's slow rapping would fit perfectly with my rapping on this track, so I asked him to put me in touch with Snoop and it's how it all happened.
CNN: Who came up with the ideas for the video?
Psy: When I first spoke with Snoop on the phone to discuss the collaboration idea, Snoop loved the title of the song, and I immediately suggested to him during that first conversation to shoot the music video in Korea and show us getting drunk and getting hungover in the most traditional Korean way.
CNN: Where was the video filmed and who chose the locations?
Psy: It was shot in Incheon. I chose that location because Snoop only had 18 hours to shoot the video. Since he was going to arrive at Incheon International Airport, I wanted to shoot the entire video in an area that is the closest to the airport to get the most out of those 18 hours.
CNN: What was the filming process like?
Psy: I initially told him that the shoot would be very relaxed and that he would only be in five scenes to entice him to come to Seoul and shoot the video. He ended up being in more than 20 scenes in more than 10 different locations within those 18 hours.
CNN: Why did you decide to go with a different director this time?
Psy: I co-directed this video so technically it's the same director, but my co-director [Cha Eun-taek] was different from that of "Gangnam Style" and "Gentleman" [co-directed by Cho Soo-hyun] because the type of the song is different -- electronic dance music versus 808 hip hop -- and I also wanted my fans to experience something different.
CNN: What surprised you about working with Snoop Dogg?
Psy: We all know how diligent Snoop is. He is all about working hard every time -- haha. I am just joking. I was very surprised working with him because he ended up shooting 20 different scenes in a short time -- it was a tough schedule, but he was a total pro and I appreciated it so much.
CNN: How did you celebrate passing two billion views of "Gangnam Style"?
Psy: I really did not have a chance or time to celebrate because I immediately flew to LA for the Jimmy Kimmel Live appearance and other promos.
CNN: What are some events/concerts/collaborations coming up for you?
Although I cannot say at this moment who I collaborated with this past year [for an upcoming EP], but what I can tell you is that I worked with some big name artists!
Psy's new EP is slated to come out later this year. The lead single on the EP "Daddy" will be released this summer.
