(EW.com) -- The eternal wait for a return journey to Pandora continues. But "Avatar" fans, just know that James Cameron is hard at work on the script that will follow up his 2009 sci-fi mega-blockbuster.
Cameron, the writer-director-producer of reigning box office champion "Avatar," recently talked with the website Play Goes Strong, revealing that he's currently in New Zealand working on writing "Avatar 2" and "Avatar 3." "I'm writing on a little farm. When you live in a special world like Pandora, you have to live in that world," he said.
"There is that startup torque where you feel it's coming to you," Cameron said of his work on the scripts. "Then you build up momentum. That's when it gets fun. The characters talk and it's writing itself. I'm almost there right now. It's building fast."
Cameron also recalled a recent conversation with "The Hobbit" and "Lord of the Rings" director Peter Jackson. "You had it easy dude," Cameron told him. "You had the books when you did the second and third Lord of the Rings. I have to create my own books in my head and extract a script from it."
'Once Upon a Time' book launch
As Cameron is tasked with creating the follow-up to a film that took the world by storm three years ago and broke his own previous record for highest-grossing movie ever, one would of course think he's feeling an incredible amount of pressure right now. Not so, said Cameron:
"Pressure? No. It's a little daunting because sequels are always tricky. You have to be surprising and stay ahead of audience anticipation. At the same time, you have to massage their feet with things that they know and love about the first film. I've walked that line in the past, so I'm not too worried about it. At the same time, I definitely have to deliver the goods."
But how long is all this isolation on this ranch going to take? No update on that or how long Cameron expects production on the sequels to take.
'Girls' season finale: Let's talk about Adam
"As for a release date that will be determined by when I get the script out," he said.
See the original article at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
