(CNN Student News) -- May 14, 2014
Has the wreckage of a long-lost ship been identified, more than 500 years after it sailed the ocean blue? Consider the claim today on CNN Student News, and get up to speed on stories from Syria to Virginia. We'll also report on a wildfire in Texas and tell you how frequently these disasters occur in the U.S.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What do you think are some challenges of reporting from a war zone?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. siege
2. the Santa Maria
3. Arlington National Cemetery
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Where is Homs? What kind of conflict has been taking place there and throughout the country? Who is Zeinat Akhras? How did she and her brother survive the fighting and the siege? How has the conflict taken a physical toll on them?
2. In what region of Texas did wildfires start burning this past weekend? As of last night, what was the status of these fires? How much damage has been caused by them? According to the video: How common are wildfires in the U.S.? What percentage of wildfires are caused by people?
3. What wreckage does modern-day explorer Barry Clifford think he may have located? Where is it? When did he actually find this wreckage? Why might it have been misidentified? What has to happen in order to prove whether it really is Columbus' ship?
4. What kind of "gut feeling" did former Sgt. Kyle White have as he and his fellow soldiers met with village elders in northeast Afghanistan? What happened at the meeting? What happened when the soldiers left the meeting? What heroic actions earned White the Medal of Honor? Who does White say are the heroes of this battle? Why?
5. Where is Arlington National Cemetery? For how long has it been used as a military burial ground? Who was the first soldier buried there? Whose graves will you find there? What are the plans for the cemetery's future?
Discussion Questions:
1. In the video we hear that wildfires are relatively common in the U.S., and that most of them are caused by people. Given the dangers and destruction of these fires, what are some suggestions you could offer for preventing them? What would you include in a televised or online message about wildfire prevention?
2. What types of evidence do you think that historians would need to confirm that the wreckage found by Barry Clifford is the Santa Maria? How might today's technology help to determine the age and origin of the ship's materials? How might technology be used to determine if the ship was one of the fleet commanded by Christopher Columbus?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
