Kenny Dalglish last managed a football club more than a decade ago, and he was given a stark reminder of how much the game has changed since then as Manchester United spoiled his return to the hotseat at Liverpool on Sunday.
The 59-year-old, known as "King Kenny" by the English club's fans after winning eight league titles and three European crowns as player and then manager, saw Liverpool beaten 1-0 in his first match in charge, an FA Cup third-round tie at Old Trafford.
The club's arch-rivals United scored a second-minute penalty through Ryan Giggs after Daniel Agger made a small amount of contact with Dimitar Berbatov, then influential captain Steven Gerrard was sent off after half an hour for a two-footed challenge on Michael Carrick.
Dalglish, a dour Scot used to the physical demands of 1970s and '80s football, ruefully reflected on the decisions of referee Howard Webb, who officiated at the 2010 World Cup final in July.
"The penalty is a joke. I have seen the replay and unless they have changed the rules, it is no penalty," he told reporters following his first match as a manager since leaving Scottish club Celtic in 2000.
Did Liverpool make the right decision?
"The other one, I cannot see that as a red card either. In the dressing-room before the game, someone said to me the game's not changed that much. I said 'I thought it was a non-contact sport.' Maybe I was right."
Dalglish's next task following his appointment to the end of this season as replacement for Roy Hodgson is to prepare Liverpool for Wednesday's Premier League trip to Blackpool, with the club 12th in the table just four points above the bottom three.
Liverpool lost at home to the unfancied promoted club in October under Hodgson before new American owners New England Sports Ventures bought out Tom Hicks and George Gillett.
Liverpool appoint legend Dalglish
Dalglish's first Liverpool reign ended in February 1991 when he resigned after a 4-4 draw with city rivals Everton, who will visit Anfield next Sunday.
United won through to the fourth round of England's historic knockout competition, with a trip to third division Southampton on January 29 or 30.
Manager Alex Ferguson expects England striker Wayne Rooney to be ready to return from an ankle injury well before then.
"Wayne came out for training on Friday and we thought he would make today," he told reporters. "But he just felt it again. At that point, we said no. There was no point."
The Premier League leaders hope to have Serbia defender Nemanja Vidic back against Tottenham on Sunday.
Meanwhile, Chelsea also progressed to the fourth round of the FA Cup with a  thumping 7-0 win over managerless second division club Ipswich on Sunday.
The two-time defending champions lifted the pressure on their own boss Carlo Ancelotti with their biggest victory since 1908 as young forward Daniel Sturridge and England midfielder Frank Lampard both scored twice and French striker Nicolas Anelka netted his first goal in two months.
The London side went into the match in the worst run of league form since owner Roman Abramovich took over in 2003, but had few problems in setting up a clash with Everton as they seek to become the first team since the 1880s to win the cup three times in a row.
Ipswich, who sacked former Manchester United star and Sunderland manager Roy Keane on Friday, suffered the worst defeat in the club's 132-year history -- surpassing the 6-1 reverse to West Ham in August.
Manchester City face an FA Cup replay after the club's former manager Sven Eriksson led second division Leicester to a 2-2 home draw.
Leicester took the lead after just 50 seconds as new defender Sol Bamba scored from close range following a corner, but Premier League high-flyers hit back through James Milner and captain Carlos Tevez to lead at halftime.
However, Leicester drew level in the 64th minute through Andy King after England goalkeeper Joe Hart spilled a cross from Paul Gallagher to keep alive the club's hopes of a fourth-round tie with third division Notts County -- shock victors against Sunderland on Saturday.
Tottenham, who announced earlier in the day that David Beckham's proposed loan move had been called off, will make the short trip to London rivals Fulham following a 3-0 victory at home to third division Charlton.
Spurs' 19-year-old midfielder Andros Townsend opened the scoring, then England striker Jermain Defoe netted twice against his former club.
