(CNN Student News) -- February 19, 2014
Fiery protests light up the night in Kiev. Today, CNN Student News explains how Ukraine is a nation divided. We also tell you where this winter ranks in terms of snowfall levels for some U.S. cities. And we examine the convenience and potential danger of shopping without using cash.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What sources would you go to if you were trying to get credible information on the safety, reliability and gas mileage of a car you wanted to buy?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. whiteout conditions
2. gas mileage
3. malware
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is happening in Kiev, Ukraine? From what country did Ukraine get its independence in 1991? What issue is causing so much tension among its people now?
2. What problems has record snowfall caused for travel and for schools throughout the northern and midwestern U.S.? What are some school districts considering in order to make up for snow days? What kinds of weather are causing problems and destroying property on the West Coast?
3. What new requirement is President Obama ordering for trucks, vans and buses? Why? What might be a downside to this requirement? How has the American trucking industry responded to the executive order?
4. What are "non-cash transactions"? According to the video, how much money was involved in non-cash transactions in 2012? What recent cases of cybercrime were, according to the video, "a global wake-up call"? Why does New York's district attorney call this a tsunami? What evidence suggests that these were sophisticated crimes? How have the retailers responded?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that snow days present a problem for school administrators? What would you suggest as a way to make up for snow days?
2. What do you think are some advantages of using credit cards in retail stores? What are some disadvantages? What might be some things consumers can do to protect themselves from credit card fraud and identity theft? Since not all credit card fraud is preventable, what would you do if you were the victim of cybercrime? What role, if any, do you think that retailers should play in protecting consumers from cybercrime?
3. According to the video, what kind of information is music service Pandora gathering from its users' preferences? Do you think this data is accurate? Why or why not? How might you go about assessing its validity?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
