A crane atop a luxury Manhattan skyscraper under construction partly collapsed Monday, leaving its arm precariously perched and hanging over West 57th Street.
New York police and fire crews were on the scene, and part of the street had been closed off as a precaution, according to Detective Martin Speechley of the New York Police Department.
Video: Watch the crane swing precariously
The New York Office of Emergency Management on Monday afternoon asked all occupants of upper floors in buildings near the site of the collapse to evacuate to lower floors.
The evacuation zone expanded later Monday, covering all buildings north and south of 57th Street, between Sixth and Seventh avenues, in addition to buildings on 56th Street, according to New York Fire Department spokesman Michael Parrella.
As of Monday evening, Le Parker Meridien hotel, on West 56th Street between Sixth and Seventh avenues, was being evacuated. Guests were being moved to another hotel, according to a concierge at Le Parker Meridien.
Streets turn to rivers, residents trapped in homes
One57, the skyscraper under construction, is offering some of the most expensive apartments in New York, with a penthouse there recently closing for more than $90 million, according to The New York Times.
"At approximately 2:35 p.m. today, the One57 tower crane boom became damaged by the high winds of Hurricane Sandy," according to Mary Costello, senior vice president for Lend Lease, the property group managing the site. "The hurricane storm winds have pushed the crane boom over the cab section of the high-rise crane at One 57th Street,"
The city has been experience gusts up to 60 mph, according to CNN meteorologists.
Sandy claims 'Bounty' off North Carolina
"We are working with structural engineers and the DOB (New York City's Department of Buildings) on evaluating any additional measures that can be taken to secure the boom and crane structure. Current weather and wind conditions remain very severe," she added.
The Department of Buildings on Sunday issued guidance that all cranes needed to be secured ahead of the brunt of superstorm Sandy. It was not immediately clear whether that guidance was followed at One57.
Costello said the crane was last inspected Friday.
Follow the latest on the storm at CNN.com's live blog
CNN's Dominique Debucquoy-Dodley and Logan Burruss contributed to this report.
