February 7, 2014
Get ready to go on a global tour of headlines: Today's coverage on CNN Student News takes students from Europe to South America to Asia. We also introduce you to a band of young people who are using music to defy stereotypes. And we'll finish with a footrace that elite athletes can run in under 12 minutes.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might media coverage of the Olympics vary from country to country?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1.  This week, Janet Yellen became the first woman to head what federal agency?
2.  In what country did Mount Sinabung erupt, killing 15 people?
3.  In this year's Winter Games, what Olympic event will include women for the first time?
4.  What Asian country is politically divided over Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra?
5.  What social media site celebrated its 10th anniversary this week?
6.  What Olympic host city is known as the "Russian Riviera"?
7.  What chain of pharmacies announced that it will stop selling tobacco products?
8.  What kind of satellites does the U.S. government use to determine precision time?
9.  Since what year have North Korea and South Korea been divided?
10. What is the most visited city in South America?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
