Kaitlyn Hunt, the 19-year-old who faces charges of lewd and lascivious battery in Florida after police learned of an alleged sexual relationship she had with a 14-year-old girl, has accepted a plea deal, prosecutor Brian Workman said Wednesday night.
The case garnered attention as Hunt's lawyers claimed that authorities wouldn't have gone after her if the situation had involved a male and a female instead of two teenage girls.
Under the plea deal, Hunt will plead no contest to five charges, including two counts of misdemeanor battery, misdemeanor contributing to the dependency of a child and two counts of felony interference with child custody, according to a copy of the plea deal provided to CNN by Workman, who is an assistant state attorney.
The felony charges originate from the times she picked up the 14-year-old against the girl's parents' wishes.
Hunt has been in jail since August 20 for violating a court order not to contact the alleged victim.
A hearing is set for 11 a.m. ET Thursday in Vero Beach, Florida, Workman said.
Under the terms of the agreement, Hunt would be sentenced to four months in jail, to be followed by two years of house arrest with electronic monitoring, and nine months of monitored probation after that, he said earlier.
If she has no violations, she will not be a convicted felon under Florida law, and she will have the possibility of sealing her file and having the case expunged after 10 years, he said.
Hunt's attorneys were involved in crafting the deal, Workman said.
Hunt's attorneys said Wednesday night they would not comment on the case.
She had refused at least two other deals.
"I believe this is a fair and balanced offer that protects the victim while giving Ms. Hunt the ability to avoid the most severe consequences of her crimes by demonstrating that no further punishment is necessary," Workman said Wednesday afternoon.
Hunt was 18 when she was charged with two felony counts of lewd and lascivious battery after allegedly having sexual relations with the girl, who was 14.
In Florida, a person under the age of 16 is not legally able to consent to sex.
Sheriff to young woman's supporters: Teen sex case is about age, not gay rights
