Agnieszka Radwanska has only lost to one player this season. It's just that she has now been beaten by Victoria Azarenka an incredible six times.
World No. 1 Azarenka maintained her complete dominance over her Polish rival with a 6-2, 6-4 win at the Madrid Masters on Saturday.
Azarenka will play former No. 1 Serena Williams in Sunday's final after the American beat Czech qualifier Lucie Hradecka 7-6 (5), 6-0.
Azarenka had already ended Radwanska's title hopes this year in Sydney, Melbourne, Doha, Indian Wells and Stuttgart. Radwanska has won her other two tournaments and withdrew injured in Kuala Lumpur.
Asked if she was looking forward to another chance to go up against Azarenka, the No. 3-ranked Radwanska replied: "Yeah sure, maybe in a couple of months!"
Australian Open champion Azarenka hammered 29 winners on the infamous blue clay in Madrid as she looks for her fifth title of the year, but she faces a very different task against Williams.
Azarenka has a 6-1 losing record against the 13-time Grand Slam champion, although they haven't met since the Belarussian rose to the top of the world rankings by winning the Australian Open in January.
"I have always been competitive against her and she is one of the toughest opponents to play against," Azarenka said. "It's going to be a different story this time."
Their last meeting ended in a 6-1, 7-6 (5) win for Williams in the U.S. Open third round last year.
Williams didn't face a break point in her semifinal against the big-hitting Hradecka and came through a tight opening set before sweeping through the second in 24 minutes.
"She served amazing in the first set," Williams said. "I came through in tiebreak, and after that I was able to relax, make less errors and make some shots. I was more aware in the second set. I think that helped me."
The 30-year-old Williams hasn't lost a clay-court match this season after winning the title in Charleston last month. She will move up to at least No. 6 in the world rankings on Monday.
"I have been working really hard but I don't want to stop at No. 6 and I want to continue to do better," Williams said. "Victoria obviously has been playing this whole year so consistent, so amazing and just nearly perfect so I am going into the final with nothing to lose.
"She's the top-ranked player and she's going in there with everything to win."
