As families head home after the holidays and children return to school, New York City is on sale for travelers willing to brave the cold temperatures in exchange for lower prices.
New York's first-ever Hotel Week will feature discounts for eight city hotels between January 6 and January 15. More basic hotel rooms, or those slightly off the beaten path, can be found for as little as $100 per night plus taxes, while fancier rooms can go for $200 or $250 per night -- still a deal by city standards.
"Hotel occupancy dips considerably during the first week in January," said hotel publicist Nancy J. Friedman, who launched the Hotel Week concept with six of her hotel clients and two nonclients. "It's a similar model to Restaurant Week, which is so successful at filling up restaurants during quiet times."
Speaking of Restaurant Week, the city's 20th anniversary promotion starts January 16 and runs through February 10 (Mondays through Fridays). For more information, click here.
There isn't a central website or phone number to book Hotel Week rooms. Several hotels have created special websites for the promotions, while others require calling the reservations number. Links are at the end of this article. Always mention Hotel Week when booking and know that these specific discounts are limited.
For visitors who won't be able to take advantage of limited Hotel Week discounts, more than 120 participating New York City hotels are offering discounts between January 2 and February 29, sponsored by NYC & Co., the city's tourism office. Discounts include a free night for stays of three or more nights, complimentary upgrades or complimentary breakfast. To book a room, click here. During the same period, a group of 20 luxury hotels is offering a free third night to visitors who book two consecutive nights at one of 20 participating "Signature Collection" hotels. More information can be found here.
Theater-lovers can score two-for-one tickets during Broadway Week, January 17 to February 4. Off-Broadway theater week offers the same deal between January 30 and February 12. Tickets also go on sale January 4 for both theater weeks. For Broadway shows, click here. For off-Broadway shows, click here.
Hotel Week discount links
To receive hotel week discounts, be sure to mention Hotel Week when booking. Some rates are available only by calling the reservations line or by using the hotel's special Hotel Week website.
Cheapest: $100/night plus taxes and fees
The Hotel @ Times Square: To book for Hotel Week, call (212) 790-2710. For more information about the hotel, click here.
nyma, the new york manhattan hotel: To book for Hotel Week, call (212) 790-2710. For more information about the hotel, click here.
The Pod Hotel: To book for Hotel Week, call (212) 355-0300. For more information about the hotel, click here.
Z NYC Hotel (Queens): To book for Hotel Week, call (212) 319-7000. For more information about the hotel, click here.
A step up: $200/night plus taxes and fees
Andaz Wall Street: To book for Hotel Week, use the hotel's special link here.
Hyatt 48 Lex: To book, use the hotel's link here.
Deluxe: $250/night plus taxes and fees
Gansevoort Meatpacking NYC: To book, use the hotel's discount link here.
Gansevoort Park Avenue NYC: To book during Hotel Week, use the hotel's discount link here.
