(CNN Student News) -- December 4, 2013
Vice President Biden is hoping to find a diplomatic solution to a dispute over airspace involving China and Japan. Get the details in Wednesday's program, and find out what led to political protests in Ukraine. We also report on Black Friday and Cyber Monday sales results, and we explain why the online shopping experience could see a major shift. Plus, we hear how football fans caused a seismic event.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Does hearing media coverage of famously busy shopping days influence viewers' shopping behavior? If so, how? If not, why not?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Ukraine
2. Black Friday and Cyber Monday
3. decibel
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What countries is Vice President Joe Biden visiting on his current trip? According to the report, why is the international community concerned about this region? How has the United States responded to China's declaration?
2. What are some arguments for and against online sales taxes? What is the current status of a legal challenge brought by two Internet retailers against an online tax? According to the report, what might the future hold for online sales taxes?
3. What world record did fans of the Seattle Seahawks NFL team set this season? How do decibel levels at CenturyLink Field compare to the levels of other noises?
Discussion Questions:
1. What questions do you think the U.S. government and the international community have with regard to China's declaration concerning its air space? What options do you think are available to China, Japan, the U.S. and the international community in addressing this issue?
2. Why might some Ukranians want closer ties with the European Union, while others might want closer ties with Russia? What might be the benefits and drawbacks of each? What are some possible outcomes to the situation in Ukraine?
3. How might an online sales tax affect Internet retailers, brick-and-mortar retailers, state governments and consumers? Do you think online taxes influence consumers' decisions on whether to shop on the Internet? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Japan
Europe
Ukraine
North America
Seattle, Washington
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
