The Scottish Police Federation (SPF) has called for an end to the "madness" of Old Firm matches after a fractious clash between Glasgow rivals Rangers and Celtic.
The Scottish Cup clash at Celtic Park on Wednesday was marred by three red cards for Rangers players and a series of running battles on the touchline.
Celtic won the game 1-0 but manager Neil Lennon clashed with Rangers striker El-Hadji Diouf during the match and Rangers assistant manager Ally McCoist after the final whistle.
Strathclyde Police said there were 34 arrests in the ground for sectarian offences, racial abuse and breach of the peace.
The derby between the two old foes is especially incendiary due to the historical religious divide between the two clubs -- Celtic supporters are largely Catholic while Rangers supporters are usually of Protestant background.
The trouble on Wednesday night led the head of the Scottish Football Association (SFA) to say he was "saddened and deeply embarrassed" by the scenes while SPF chairman Les Gray said police were struggling to cope.
Mr Gray told CNN: "We simply don't have the money and resources to do this. Everyone involved needs to sit down and look at this. Something has to give. This madness cannot go on.
"What happens on the pitch is reproduced throughout Scotland, on the streets, in pubs, in homes. You cannot justify it. It can't keep on going."
Scotland's Justice Secretary Kenny MacAskill was quoted by the UK Press Association as saying: "There is a deep-rooted and unacceptable social issue involved -- which has a great deal to do with Scotland's damaging relationship with alcohol, and little to do with football.
"The issue is far wider than clubs and the game. It is about a culture of violence fueled by alcohol."
The SFA confirmed they had launched an investigation with chief executive Stewart Regan criticizing "inflammatory and irresponsible behavior" during the match.
In a statement on the SFA's website he said: "As chief executive of this organization, I was both saddened and deeply embarrassed to witness the scenes that unfolded during what is supposed to be Scottish football's flagship fixture: these images were broadcast around the world and shows our game in a poor light.
"I acknowledge the pressures of expectation on both clubs but last night's behavior crossed the boundaries of acceptable conduct at a football match.
"The unedifying sight of two of the country's most recognizable and respected coaches engaged in an angry confrontation was not only unsavoury but exacerbated an already incendiary atmosphere inside the stadium and throughout the West of Scotland."
