It is already one of the world's most-watched sporting events, but English Premier League officials hope to extend the football competition's popularity with a tour that gives fans the chance to experience it close up.
Starting in Abu Dhabi later this month, the official Premier League trophy will be at the center of an interactive exhibition which will also go to Dubai, Qatar and Saudi Arabia until the end of April.
The tour will then head to Hong Kong during the pre-season Barclays Asia Trophy in late July, and in 2012 and 2013 it will visit China, South-East Asia, the United States, India and South Africa.
The Premier League, sponsored by banking group Barclays, broadcasts 380 matches each season to 580 million homes in more than 200 countries.
In 2009-10, an estimated cumulative global audience of 2.90 billion viewed more than 110,000 hours of coverage, while 13 million-plus fans attended matches in England.
League officials have mooted the possibility of playing a round of matches outside of Britain, but football's world ruling body FIFA rejected the idea.
"We are excited about joining long-term partners Barclays to put on our first official trophy tour for fans around the world," Premier League chief executive Richard Scudamore said.
"We want to show them what is at the heart of our competition: the trophy itself, as that is what every player and manager competes to get their hands on; the fantastic football as played by our 20 clubs, because that is what excites hundreds of millions week-in week-out; and the history and tradition of English football, as that is what helps create the huge interest in the competition."
The exhibition will be housed in four domes, which profile the league's 20 clubs, simulate the experience of a match-day, showcase the trophy and allow fans to picture themselves lifting it against a green-screen.
The half-hour tour is free, but entrance must be pre-booked through the official website.
The schedule starts at Abu Dhabi's The Corniche from March 18-20, then Dubai's Jumeirah Beach Residence on April 1-3, Doha April 16-18 and Riyadh April 28-30.
