Andy Murray will play Novak Djokovic in the quarterfinals of the Miami Masters after both men sailed through their last 16 matches.
Murray, who won his second Miami title 12 months ago, beat France's Jo-Wilfried Tsonga while Djokovic beat Tommy Robredo of Spain.
The Scot, who recently parted company with coach Ivan Lendl, put in a commanding performance against the 11th seed winning 6-4 6-1 in 74 minutes.
Earlier, Djokovic progressed with a straight sets 6-3 7-5 win.
The Serb, who is seeking a fourth Miami title, needed just over 80 minutes to see off 16th seed Robredo hitting 19 winners and five aces.
The No. 2 seed was ruthless when required, taking both his break point opportunities -- one in each set -- to seal the win and remain on course for back-to-back ATP Tour 1000 events after winning at Indian Wells earlier this month.
"(It was a) very solid win," said Djokovic. "I made him play an extra shot in important moments and that's why I'm satisfied with the overall match today."
Murray beat Djokovic in their previous meeting at last year's Wimbledon final, but has since slumped to sixth in the rankings.
He has a home in Miami, where he is based for much of his training.
"If you're feeling a bit down, which I was a little bit when I got here, I also remember the amount of hours I put in on that tennis court out there and also in the gym," he said.
"This is where I have built most of my professional career from, so it makes a big difference coming back here. Mentally, I always feel pretty good here."
Roger Federer is also safely through to the last eight after dispatching Richard Gasquet in straight sets 6-1 6-2.
But his compatriot Stanislas Wawrinka crashed out on Tuesday -- the latest victim of Ukraine's Alexandr Dolgopolov, who won in three sets 6-4 3-6 6-1.
Federer will play Kei Nishikori in the quarters after the Japanese 20th seed overcame Spain's David Ferrer in an epic three-setter 7-6 (9/7) 6-2 7-6 (11/9).
Nishikori raced into a 4-1 lead in the first before Ferrer clawed his way back into the set only to lose it on the tiebreak.
But the Spanish fourth seed dominated the second before Nishikori won a grueling deciding set.
Both players had match points in the tiebreak but it was Nishikori who eventually prevailed in three hours, seven minutes to send last year's losing finalist crashing out.
World No. 1 Rafael Nadal, seeking his first Miami title after three losing finals, romped into the last eight with a 6-2 6-2 win over Italian 14th seed Fabio Fognini.
The Spaniard will next face big-serving Canadian Milos Raonic, who booked his place by after beating Benjamin Becker of Germany 6-3 6-4.
In the women's draw, Maria Sharapova is through to the semifinal after trouncing fellow former Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova 7-5 6-1.
Sharapova, a losing finalist in Miami five times, will next face world No. 1 Serena Williams -- the American trounced ninth-ranked German Angelique Kerber 6-2 6-2.
"I felt much better today than in a few of my other matches here," said defending champion Williams, who has won a record six Miami titles.
"Knowing I was going to play a top-10 player, I knew I had to come out and play really well tonight. And I did play well."
Williams has won 14 successive matches against former No. 1 Sharapova, including the semifinals in Brisbane in January.
"I love playing her, I really do -- doesn't matter what surface or anything," the 32-year-old said. "She's one of my favorite people to play. It just gets you really pumped."
Sharapova was also looking forward to the clash.
"It's no secret that she's been a big challenge of mine, an opponent that obviously I would love to beat," the Russian said.
"There are certainly ways I need to step up in certain situations I haven't been able to do in the past against her, but it's great I have the opportunity to play her again."
Read more: Del Potro out for rest of 2014?
Read more: Venus Williams has 'nothing to lose'
