(EW.com) -- Starz has picked up a two season, 20-episode order of half-hour scripted comedy series "Blunt Talk" from Seth MacFarlane ("Family Guy") and Jonathan Ames ("Bored to Death") and starring Patrick Stewart.
The series follows British newsman Walter Blunt (Stewart) on a mission to conquer American cable news by sharing his opinion and guidance, even when they are not wanted. Add a dysfunctional news staff, numerous ex-wives and children, and an alcoholic manservant, and you've got a recipe for comedy gold.
'The Returned' now getting official U.S. remake
"I'm beyond thrilled to be working with Jonathan Ames and Sir Patrick Stewart," said Seth Macfarlane in a statement. "Jonathan's creative talent is formidable, and his writing style is wholly original, hilarious, and provocative. And of course, Patrick Stewart is one of the greatest actors alive today. His skill and versatility are unmatched, and he will excel as the star of his own show. Thank you Starz for allowing us to bring Walter Blunt to life!"
The series comes from Media Rights Capital, the folks behind MacFarlane's "Ted" and Netflix's "House of Cards," and will be executive produced via MacFarlane's Fuzzy Door Productions, Inc. MacFarlane and Stewart previously collaborated on the TV animated comedy "American Dad."
Yahoo announces long-form shows from Paul Feig and Mike Tollin
"My career took an abrupt and radical left turn when Seth McFarlane created CIA Deputy Director Avery Bullock on 'American Dad,'" said Patrick Stewart, who will next appear on the big screen in "X-Men: Days of Future Past." "This new character, Walter Blunt, is not at all like Avery, thank God, because this is live action and I am a Knight of the Realm. Blunt is, however, much smarter than Avery and has his own TV show, which has to be better than being Deputy Director of the CIA."
"In the character of Walter Blunt, Seth, Jonathan and Patrick have found the alchemy that makes a borderline alcoholic, mad-genius-Brit the man you want fighting in America's corner," said Starz CEO Chris Albrecht. "Seth and Jonathan have struck the right balance between biting wit and outright absurdity in building this world, and we cannot wait for Patrick to breathe life into Walter."
The series is slated to premiere some time next year.
See the original story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
