Barcelona will meet arch-rival Real Madrid in the semifinal of the Copa del Rey after Leo Messi fired the Catalans past Malaga Thursday.
The Argentina international scored his 40th goal of the season as Barca claimed a 4-2 win to prevail 6-4 on aggregate and set up two more 'El Clasico' games.
It will give Barcelona, which is top of La Liga, the opportunity to avenge its defeat by Jose Mourinho's men in the 2010 final.
Messi and Ronaldo ensure honors shared in 222nd El Clasico
With Real trailing Barca by 15 points in the league, Mourinho will be desperate to regain the trophy which Pep Guardiola lifted in his final game in charge at the Camp Nou last season.
But if the current Spanish champions are to triumph, they will have to stop Messi and his accomplices, who continue to prosper despite the absence of coach Tito Vilanova.
Vilanova, who is undergoing treatment for cancer, left deputy Jordi Roura in charge, but it made little difference as Barca continued its hot streak.
The statistics are frightening. Barcelona have now scored 100 goals in its 34 goals this season.
It is the fourth year in succession that Messi has reached the 40-goal mark, while his late header also made it 23 goals in his past 15 starts.
With the tie level at 2-2 going into the second leg, Barcelona made the perfect start when Pedro headed home after just eight minutes.
Messi leads Barcelona to new record
But Malaga fought back and Joaquin equalized four minutes later with a neat finish following wonderful interplay.
Although far from its fluent best, Barcelona picked up in the second half and Gerard Pique netted four minutes after the interval only for Roque Santa Cruz to pull Malaga level once again.
But Barca continued to look threatening and a wonderful flowing move ended with Cesc Fabregas threading the ball through for Andres Iniesta to stroke home.
There was still time for Messi's customary goal, running through the middle to head home Dani Alves' cross from close-range and kill off any hopes of a Malaga comeback.
More than a game: Austerity gives El Clasico new twist
In the night's other game, Atletico Madrid booked its place in the last four with a 1-1 draw at Real Betis to progress 3-1 on aggregate.
Diego Costa put Atletico ahead on the stroke of halftime with Jorge Molina scoring from the penalty spot late on.
Atletico will now face Sevilla in the semifinal.
Bilbao forward Llorente opens talks with Juventus
Meanwhile, Italian champion Juventus confirmed the signing of Spain forward Fernando Llorente.
The 27-year-old, who will arrive in Turin on July 1 when his current deal with Athletic Bilbao expires, has signed a four-year contract.
A statement from the club said: "Juventus can confirm that Spanish international striker Fernando Llorente will join the club on 1 July 2013.
"The 27-year-old has agreed terms on a four-year deal and will move to Turin when his Athletic Bilbao contract expires at the end of the current season."
Elsewhere, AC Milan has signed defender Cristian Zaccardo from Parma in a deal which has seen Djamel Mesbah go the other way.
