Zach Johnson denied Tiger Woods a sixth tournament victory in 2013 in a dramatic climax to the World Golf Challenge at the Sherwood Country Club in California on Sunday.
The 2007 Masters champion secured the $1 million first prize at the first extra playoff hole, but it was his heroics moments earlier on the final regulation hole that left the crowds gasping.
He and Woods were tied for the lead on 13-under par as they headed down the 72nd hole, but when Johnson dumped his approach into the water his hopes looked to have sunk with his ball. But incredibly the Georgia native holed his fourth shot from the drop zone 65 yards out to claim an unlikely par and complete a four-under round of 68.
Woods, who had earlier led by four shots with eight to play, also made a meal of par at the 18th putting his second shot into greenside bunker before getting up and down to finish with a round of 70.
When the players returned to the play the 18th again in the playoff, it was Woods who blinked first, finding sand again with his approach while Johnson found the left side of the green.
Johnson two-putted for par but Woods, who played out to five feet saw his putt lip out, handing Johnson his second title of the year.
America's Bubba Watson and Matt Kuchar finished tied for third on nine under with Graeme McDowell the highest placed European player.
The Northern Irishman finished in sixth place on five-under par while his compatriot Rory McIlroy, who won his first tournament of the year at the Australian Open last weekend, ended up down in 11th in the 18-man field.
Brilliant Bjorn wins in Sun City
Thomas Bjorn produced a stunning final round of 65 to claim a two-shot win at the Nedbank Golf Challenge in Sun City on Sunday.
The Dane's victory was sealed when he produced two eagles on the back nine at the Gary Player Country Club to finish on 20-under par, two shots ahead of overnight leader Jamie Donaldson from Wales and Spain's Sergio Garcia.
"This is right up there with the best days of my career," Bjorn said, EuropeanTour.com reported.
"You never forget your first victory, and then my win against Tiger in Dubai when I went toe-to-toe with him for four days and came out top was special, but winning here in the way that I did against a field of this quality is up there.
"I knew I had to shoot something low and then see what Jamie was doing. It turned out that it was Sergio and every time I saw a leaderboard he was making birdies. I am very proud of the way I played today - it's a very special day in my career."
