Rapper 50 Cent entered a not guilty plea to domestic violence and vandalism charges in a Los Angeles County court Monday.
The 37-year-old artist -- whose real name is Curtis Jackson -- was ordered to return to the Van Nuys, California, courtroom on September 4 for a pretrial hearing for one count of domestic violence and four counts of vandalism, according to a court spokeswoman.
Model-actress Daphne Joy, who has a child with Jackson, accused her ex-boyfriend of kicking her and ransacking the bedroom during an argument at her condo in the Toluca Lake neighborhood in Los Angeles on June 23, according to the Los Angeles city attorney. Authorities allege Jackson caused $7,100 in damage to property and left the scene before police arrived.
"During an argument, Jackson allegedly began destroying the female's property," the city prosecutor's office said in a written statement. "Allegedly when the female locked herself in her bedroom, Jackson kicked open the bedroom door and kicked her, causing an injury."
Police found broken chandeliers and furniture throughout the home. The bedroom closet was ransacked, with clothes thrown all over the floor, and there was a broken television and lamp, the prosecutor's office said.
If convicted on all five counts, Jackson would face up to five years in jail and $46,000 in fines.
Although prosecutors initially did not release the alleged victim's name, her lawyer did in a statement to CNN last month.
"Daphne Joy and Curtis Jackson have been together for a few years in an exclusive relationship," the lawyer's statement said. "They had a child and now Daphne's No. 1 priority is to ensure both her and the baby's safety during this difficult time. We also hope everyone will respect her and the baby's privacy."
Joy was a principal mermaid in 2011's "Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides." She's also had roles on TV's "CSI: Las Vegas," "Criminal Minds," "Curb Your Enthusiasm," and "Wild 'N Out," her website says.
CNN's Carolyn Sung contributed to this report.
