As temperatures climbed toward the 90s across the Washington metro region Monday, hundreds of thousands of people were left to cope with the blistering heat as utility crews worked to restore power after a violent thunderstorm that killed two people.
A 6-year-old boy was fatally injured while walking with his family Sunday afternoon in Sterling, Virginia, when heavy wind caused a large section of a tree to fall, according to Kraig Troxell, a spokesman for the Loudoun County sheriff. The boy, whose name was not released, died at a Virginia hospital, Troxell said.
A second person was killed and another was injured in Beltsville, Maryland, on Sunday when a tree fell on the car in which they were riding, according to Cpl. Clinton Copeland, a spokesman for the Prince George's County Police Department.
Meanwhile, utility crews restored power to a Washington-area nursing home that has been forced to brave the elements since Sunday afternoon. Cooling buses and emergency crews worked with building nurses and officials until power was restored about 1 p.m Monday, according to Pete Piringer, a spokesman for the District of Columbia Fire and EMS. As a precautionary measure, five people were transported to area hospitals with heat-related illness. Their conditions were not severe, Piringer added.
Electricity provider Pepco said Monday that about 220,000 residences across the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia were still in the dark -- and without air-conditioning -- following one of the hottest days of the year.
July's brutal onslaught of record heat continued in the eastern United States, with temperature records set Sunday in Baltimore, Maryland, where it hit 100 degrees, and Washington, where it was 98.
By Monday afternoon, damage had been reported across the region from 270 downed trees or very large limbs, including approximately 20 full large trees, according to the District Department of Transportation. More than 20 traffic signals remained out because of power problems, the department added.
The storm was part of a slow-moving front that struck parts of the Northeast before moving south.
Heat advisories and warnings continue for the Deep South in parts of Georgia and South Carolina through Monday; the heat index is expected to exceed 105 degrees.
CNN's Angela Fritz, Jonathan Helman and Devon Sayers contributed to this report.
