Think of all of the ridiculous things you've seen on Twitter. Have a good mental image? Hold on to it, because a recent tweet from a presumed fan of rapper J. Cole might top your list.
On Tuesday, the same day J. Cole officially released his latest album, "Born Sinner," he retweeted a threat he received from a Twitter user who goes by the name @_TzC_.
"Retweet me and I'll buy 'Born Sinner.' Don't retweet me and I'll kill my lil sister," the message said. It was accompanied by a photo of a girl standing with a gun pointed at her head.
At the time, J. Cole responded to the tweet, "wildest s*** i ever seen on twitter bruh." CNN reached out to J. Cole's camp for further comment, but has yet to hear back.
@_TzC_ first posted the statement late Monday night, and since then has tweeted that he's been "ripped apart" by other users -- not to mention that the police have gotten involved.
"My mom is so mad at me.... I gotta go into hiding for a lil while," he shared, later replying to one inquirer, "(I)t was a BB gun. Cops came to my house and everything."
In a statement to TMZ, he offered an apology: "I'd like to apologize to America for the photo and to put J. Cole in that position. It was all a joke. It was an unloaded BB gun and my sister was in on it. I only tweeted it because I didn't expect a response. Mr. Cole please don't sue me. I want to formally apologize more to J. Cole and yeah my mom made me delete my twitter until I fixed it."
Police in New Braunfels, Texas, are investigating the tweet's alleged author.
Capt. John McDonald said the BB gun was unloaded and he called the post a lapse in judgment. The Twitter user has been cooperative in visits to the department, he said.
There has been no decision on charges, which would be misdemeanors if pursued, McDonald said on Wednesday.
The image in question was still visible on Twitter on Wednesday, and the social networking site referred CNN to its media policy, noting that the company doesn't comment on individual accounts "for privacy and security reasons."
Twitter's media policy states that the company doesn't "mediate content," although "some content is not permissible by law." If an uploaded image is reported and is found to be unlawful, the photo would be removed and the individual's account would be suspended.
On Wednesday, the Twitter user in question was still posting, as he told his followers: "I make terrible decisions. Don't admire me. ... I'm not a bad person, I'm just stupid."
CNN's Denise Quan and Chandler Friedman contributed to this report.
