He is hoping to be one of the stars of the 2014 World Cup, but an injury blow for Luis Suarez has drawn extreme reaction from Uruguay football fans.
Suarez is facing a race against time to be fit for the showpiece tournament in Brazil starting next month, and the player whose challenge required the Liverpool star to have knee surgery has been bombarded with death threats.
Paul Dummett, who plays for Newcastle United, was sent off for his challenge on Uruguay's all-time leading scorer on the final day of the English Premier League season earlier this month.
Uruguay has been drawn in the same group as England, and some fans took to Twitter to unleash their fury at the 22-year-old, with many posting violent messages on the social media network.
One message read: "Hi Paul Dummett. I hope some day you come here (Uruguay) to have a nice time with friends. We have things for you, like a bullet in the head."
Another tweeted: "Hey, Paul Dummett. If Suárez doesn't play against England, you'll never play again."
The English Football Association rescinded Dummett's suspension following the May 11 incident, and Suarez was able to join up with his national side for a training camp in Montevideo -- but limped out in a warmup on Wednesday and had a minor operation Thursday.
The 27-year-old, who has scored 38 goals in 77 international appearances, is likely to be out of action for a fortnight after damaging his meniscus.
Oscar Tabarez's side begins its World Cup campaign on June 15 against Costa Rica before facing England four days later in Sao Paulo, with a final group-stage match against Italy on June 24.
Suarez left the hospital in a wheelchair following the procedure, but Uruguay's football association insists "his participation in the World Cup in Brazil has not been ruled out."
"He had a magnetic resonance which confirmed a partial lesion of the external meniscus," it said in a statement.
"In terms of relevant clinical history, to point out that he suffered a blow to his left knee during the last game of the Premier League season with Liverpool, which provoked a pain that subsided with rest following the end of the season."
Suarez, one the world's most potent strikers, enjoyed a successful season with Liverpool, becoming the first player to score 30 league goals for the club since Ian Rush in 1987.
He was named player of the season but his team missed out on a first English title since 1990, finishing second behind Manchester City despite leading with three matches to play.
Suarez helped Uruguay finish third at the 2010 World Cup but was sent off in the quarterfinal against Ghana after deliberately handling the ball on the goal line.
Ghana missed the resulting penalty and Uruguay went on to progress to the semifinals.
A year later, he helped Uruguay win its 15th Copa America by scoring in the 3-0 win over Paraguay in the final.
Suarez has had a controversial career, twice receiving lengthy suspensions for biting opponents while playing for Liverpool and Dutch club Ajax.
He was also banned for eight matches after being found guilty of racially abusing Manchester United's Patrice Evra in October 2011.
