The people you admire have heroes too. This year, we reach out to former Blue Ribbon Panel members, as well as performers and presenters who appeared at our 2007 and 2008 "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute" shows, to tell us about the people and causes that inspire them.
Terrence Howard: Reaching Out The actor presented a CNN Hero Award at last year's "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute." Here, he shares a personal story of the painful experience that led him to speak out about cancer prevention. His story  | Get involved: 1 | 2
Jewel: Give a Drop  A 2007 Blue Ribbon Panel member, the singer-songwriter founded Project Clean Water to help bring safe, clean drinking water to impoverished communities worldwide. Here, she shares her own story of personal poverty and her inspiration to help others in need.  Her story  | Get involved
Mary J. Blige: A Second Chance  The Grammy Award winner performed "Come to Me (Peace)" at "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute" in 2007. Here, she shares her personal reasons for co-creating FFAWN, dedicated to empowering women in her New York hometown. Her story  | Get involved
Dana Delany: A Life of Meaning Last year, the actress shared the spotlight with one of her heroes. Here, Delany explains why she got a mammogram on camera for Stand Up to Cancer and her personal connection to the cause.  Her story  | Get involved
Sir Richard Branson: Uniting the World  A member of the 2008 Blue Ribbon Panel, Branson is the founder and president of the Virgin Group. Here, he shares how his company's nonprofit foundation, Virgin Unite, tackles social and environmental problems with an entrepreneurial approach.  His story  | Get involved
Wyclef Jean: Yéle Haiti  The Grammy Award winner performed "Any Other Day" with Norah Jones at 2007's "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute. A native of Haiti, he founded Yéle Haiti to improve lives in the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.  His story  | Get involved
Kristi Yamaguchi: Always Dream  A 2008 Blue Ribbon Panel member, the Olympic gold medalist started the Always Dream Foundation. Named for a motto that served as her personal inspiration, it supports programs that have a positive influence on children of all abilities.  Her story  | Get involved
Téa Leoni: A Heritage of Hope  For this 2007 Blue Ribbon Panel member, volunteering for UNICEF is a 50-year family tradition; her grandmother co-founded the U.S. Fund for UNICEF. Today, the actress is an advocate for children's causes worldwide. Her story  | Get involved
Holly Robinson Peete: Our Family Mantra  A member of the 2008 Blue Ribbon Panel, the actress co-founded the HollyRod Foundation , which supports people with Parkinson's disease. Here, she shares a personal story about her father and her son.  Her story  | Get involved
Deepak Chopra: StartFund Global  A Blue Ribbon Panel member who helped select the Top 10 CNN Heroes in 2007 and 2008, Dr. Chopra explains how the new StartFund Global initiative co-funds projects he hopes will "create everyday heroes" around the world.  His story  | Get involved | Commentary
John Legend: The Show Me Campaign  Last year, the Grammy Award winner performed "If You're Out There" at "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute." Here, the founder of The Show Me Campaign shares the source of his inspiration to seek an end to global poverty.  His story  | Get involved
In 2008, CNN Heroes asked several celebrities to share the spotlight with "everyday people" who are making a difference in causes that they support. Learn more about them here
