AC Milan bounced back from the disappointment of missing out on a domestic double by beating Cagliari 4-1 on Saturday, with Robinho scoring twice.
Milan wrapped up the Serie A title last weekend but were denied a place in the Coppa Italia final following a 2-1 defeat by Palermo in the second leg of the semi on Tuesday.
However, Massimiliano Allegri's team scored three goals in the first 35 minutes -- two of them going to Brazilian forward Robinho -- to subdue the visiting Sardinians.
Robinho took his Serie A tally to 14 this season, joining compatriot Alexandre Pato and Zlatan Ibrahimovic as the club's top scorers.
Draw puts Inter into Italian Cup final
Midfielder Andrea Cossu pulled a goal back before halftime, but veteran midfielder Clarence Seedorf sealed victory in the 77th minute to put Milan nine points clear of second-placed city rivals Inter.
The Nerazzurri, whose five-year title reign is over after failing to repeat the heroics of last season's treble, travel to third-placed Napoli on Sunday.
Cagliari went into the match in 11th place and in no danger of being relegated, but suffered a fourth successive defeat.
Lazio moved up to fourth and a possible Champions League place after beating 10th-placed Genoa 4-2 earlier in the day to end a run of three defeats.
Brazilian Hernanes scored twice in the second half after goals from Giuseppe Biava and Tommaso Rocchi to lift the Rome side a point above Udinese, who visit 12th-placed Chievo on Sunday.
Lazio travel to lowly Lecce in the final round next weekend, while Udinese are at home to Milan.
Meanwhile, Lille are on course for a domestic double after beating Lille beat Paris Saint Germain 1-0 in Saturday's French Cup final, winning the competition for the first time since 1955.
Poland midfielder Ludovic Obraniak scored the only goal in the 89th minute with a superb free-kick after coming on as a substitute.
Lille, who have a four-point lead over Marseille with three matches to play in Ligue 1, then saw Mathieu Debuchy's injury-time penalty save by Gregory Coupet.
