Chelsea's big spending on Europe's transfer deadline day has been criticized by one of the club's English rivals, who questioned how the Premier League champions can meet UEFA's new financial fair-play rules.
The London team announced a loss of $113 million on Monday for the year ended June 30, 2010 -- but then smashed the British transfer record with a reported $80 million acquisition of Spain striker Fernando Torres, and also laid out $34 million for Brazil defender David Luiz.
The Torres deal allowed his former club Liverpool to spend $55 million on Newcastle's relatively unproven England striker Andy Carroll, who is injured, and $36 million on Uruguay forward Luis Suarez.
However, European football's governing body UEFA will take sanctions against clubs who cannot balance their books by the end of the 2012 reporting period.
The best and worst deals of a dramatic deadline day
Chelsea's London rivals Arsenal were again quiet in the January transfer window, and manager Arsene Wenger questioned the tactics of the Blues' billionaire Russian owner Roman Abramovich.
"Chelsea supported UEFA's financial fair-play proposals but in the morning they announced a £70 million loss and in the afternoon they buy £75 million worth of players. Where's the logic in that?" he told reporters after Tuesday's 2-1 Premier League win over Everton.
"It's hard to guess. Officially they vote for financial fair play, but they can explain why they have done this much better than I can. Abramovich can tell you why, but that's how you can read it from the outside.
"If you don't invest for a while, it looks as if you're not as involved in it anymore, that he doesn't like it as much. But £75 million means more will come.
"Abramovich was a bit in no-man's land where nobody could guess if he wanted to still invest or not. He has been like that for a long time, but that has changed. He has decided to put big money in again and that tells you in the summer more will come. He is back to full investment."
Adriano Galliani, vice-president of Italian club AC Milan, also criticized the level of spending in England -- which reached a record $363 million.
"Everyone's talking about balancing the books but then they spend like crazy people," he told reporters. "Chelsea strengthened in an amazing way, spending 80 million euros. I just don't know where financial sense will end up."
Chelsea sign Torres and Luiz in frantic end to deadline day
Chelsea dressed up the club's financial results by saying they were "cash positive" with a net inflow of £3.8 million compared to an outflow of £16.9 million in 2008-09.
"The club is in a strong position to meet the challenges of UEFA 'financial fair play' initiatives which will be relevant to the financial statements to be released in early 2013," chief executive Ron Gourlay told the Chelsea website.
UEFA released a statement saying that clubs "are increasingly aware of the nature of the financial fair-play rules, which aim to encourage clubs to balance their incomes and expenses over a period of time covering four to six transfer windows."
It refused to comment on individual clubs, but said the rules did not stop them from spending money on transfers as such -- the emphasis is on balancing books at the end of the season.
"There is no doubt that transfers made now will impact on the break-even results of the financial years ending 2012 and 2013 -- the first financial years to be assessed under the break-even rule," UEFA said.
"The clubs know the rules and also know that UEFA is fully committed to implementing them with rigor. As from this summer, all payments due on transfers and to employees will be assessed by the Club Financial Control Panel as part of the 'enhanced overdue payables' rule."
