England have qualified for the Euro 2012 finals, but they had troubled striker Wayne Rooney sent off, and squandered a two-goal lead, to draw 2-2 in Montenegro on Friday.
Fabio Capello's side only needed a point to seal their place from Group G and looked in complete control when Ashley Young headed home Theo Walcott's cross, before Young turned provider to set up Darren Bent with an easy finish.
However, Montenegro pulled a goal back on the stroke of half-time with a deflected Elsad Zverotic effort, before Rooney was shown a straight red card in the second half for kicking out at defender Miodrag Dzudovic.
And the home side took advantage of their man advantage to snatch a last-gasp draw when Andrija Delibasic headed home Stefan Savic's far post cross.
The result secured England's qualification with 18 points from their completed eight matches, but it has come at a cost with Rooney -- who had to contend with his father and uncle being arrested earlier in the week over a betting fraud allegation -- now being suspended for at least the first match of the finals tournament.
It proved to be an important equalizer for Montenegro, who have secured second spot and a place in the play-offs on 12 points.
Switzerland lost 2-0 in Wales in the other group match to end their hopes of reaching the finals via the play-offs.
Russia moved a step closer to sealing qualification with a vital 1-0 Group B success in Slovakia. CSKA Moscow midfielder Alan Dzagoev scored the only goal with 20 minutes remaining, as Russia moved top of the group with 20 points.
They will ensure qualification if they draw with group minnows Andorra in their final match, while Slovakia's defeat means they cannot now qualify via the play-offs.
Republic of Ireland won 2-0 in Andorra, thanks to goals from Kevin Doyle and Aidan McGeady, and lie second on 18 points, one ahead of Armenia who thrashed Macedonia 4-1 in Yerevan.
Ireland and Armenia will meet in the final group game in Dublin, with Ireland just needing a draw to secure a play-off place.
In Group E, Sweden secured their place in the play-offs with a 2-1 victory at rivals Finland in Helsinki.
Two players who ply their trade in England, Sunderland's Sebatian Larsson and Martin Olsson of Blackburn put the visitors in the ascendancy and their held on for victory despite Joona Toivio pulling a goal back for the home side.
In the other group match, a goal five minutes before half-time from Klaas-Jan Huntelaar gave the already-qualified Netherlands a 1-0 home win over Moldova in Rotterdam.
That means the Dutch maintain their 100% record in the group with nine wins out of nine. They lie on 27 points, six ahead of Sweden who must travel to the Netherlands in their final group game.
Hungary are a further three points behind in third and can draw level on points with Sweden, but the Swedes are certain of a play-off place courtesy of a greater head-to-head record.
Germany also maintained their perfect nine from nine record with a superb 3-1 Group A victory over Turkey in Istanbul.
In-form Bayern Munich striker Mario Gomez opened the scoring with his 13th goal of the season and club team-mate Thomas Mueller added a second after being set-up by Mario Goetze.
Hakan Balta pulled a goal back for Turkey with 10 minutes remaining but Bastian Schweinsteiger converted a late penalty, after Gokhan Gonul had fouled Mueller, to seal the win.
The win puts Germany on 27 points, a massive 12 points ahead of Belgium, who have leapfrogged Turkey into second place after defeating Kazakhstan 4-1 in Brussels.
However, Turkey are just a point behind Belgium and are still favorites to claim the play-off place as they entertain Azerbaijan in their final match, while Belgium have to win in Germany to clinch second spot.
Austria will finish fourth in the group after they won 4-1 in Azerbaijan on Friday.
Holders Spain are the other team to remain 100% after beating the Czech Republic 2-0 in Prague for a seventh consecutive Group I success.
First-half goals from Juan Mata and Xabi Alonso proved enough for the European and world champions, who now have 21 points with one match remaining.
Second place is still up for grabs with the Czechs two points ahead of Scotland, who play in Liechtenstein on Saturday. A Scottish win will put them a point ahead with one match remaining, but that match is in Spain, while the Czechs have to travel to Lithuania needing to better the Scottish result.
Northern Ireland's faint hopes of reaching the play-offs from Group C are over after they slumped to a 2-1 home defeat against Estonia.
Steve Davis put the Irish ahead in the first half, but two late second half goals from Konstantin Vassiljev gave the visitors victory.
The other group match saw Serbia draw 1-1 with already-qualified Italy in Belgrade. Claudio Marchisio took advantage of a long kick from goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon to put the Italians ahead but defender Branislav Ivanovic restored parity before half-time.
Italy have won the group and lie on 23 points with one match remaining. Estonia are second on 16 points, one point ahead of Serbia, but the Estonians have now played all their matches and Serbia will snatch that spot with a final match victory in Slovenia.
Group D all hinges on the final group game between France and Bosnia in Paris, after both nations won on Friday. Bosnia thumped Luxembourg 5-0 in Zenica, while Florent Malouda, Loic Remy and Anthony Reveillere scored the goals that saw France defeat Albania 3-0 at home.
It leaves France on 20 points, one ahead of Bosnia, with a final match draw enough to send France through and put Bosnia into the play-offs. Romania and Belarus drew 2-2 in the other group match and the pair are joint third on 13 points, but Belarus have finished their matches now and Romania will end up third if they draw their final match against Albania.
There was a significant result in Group F, where 2004 champions Greece beat Croatia 2-0 in Athens. Late goals from Georgios Samaras and Theofanis Gekas gave the home side a victory that makes them favorites to qualify for the finals.
Greece are two points clear of Croatia and will qualify with a final match draw in Georgia, while Croatia need a victory at home to Latvia to have any hope of avoiding the play-offs. Friday's other match saw Latvia defeat Malta 2-0.
Meanwhile, Group H is now a straight fight between Portugal and Denmark, to see which nation qualifies automatically with the other going into the play-offs.
Manchester United winger Nani scored twice in Portugal's 5-3 win over Iceland on Friday, while a double from Dennis Rommedahl helped the Danes thrash Cyprus 4-1.
Both teams are level on 16 points at the top of the table, but Portugal lead on the head-to-head. The pair face each other in Denmark on Tuesday, with the winners qualifying for the finals.
