Andre Villas-Boas' troubles as Chelsea manager deepened on Saturday as he watched his side go down to a 1-0 defeat at West Bromwich Albion in the English Premier League.
An 82nd minute strike by defender Gareth McAuley was enough to sent the Blues' crashing to a seventh league defeat.
The result also means they lose ground on London rivals Arsenal in the race to finish fourth place and secure Champions League football next season.
"It wasn't good enough and it's not been good enough for quite some time. We don't win enough games and they are not numbers that make us proud. In football there is joy and there is pain," Villas-Boas told BBC Sport after the game.
Robin van Persie's deft injury-time volley gave Arsenal all three points against Liverpool at Anfield.
Liverpool were awarded a penalty in the 19th minute when Tomasz Szczesny brought down Luis Suarez, but made amends palming Dirk Kuyt's spot kick to safety.
But four minutes later the Reds went ahead when Laurent Koscielny turned the ball into his own net as he tried to divert Jordan Henderson's cross.
But the lead didn't last long as van Persie headed home his first from a Bacary Sagna cross in the 31st minute.
The game looked to be heading for a draw when the Dutch striker caressed the ball past Pepe Reina in the second minute of injury time to leave Liverpool 10 points adrift of a Champions League place.
Arsenal are now three points clear of Chelsea in fourth place with 49 points.
League leaders Manchester City enjoyed a comfortable 2-0 win against Bolton Wanderers at the Etihad Stadium.
A 23rd-minute own goal by Icelandic defender Gretar Steinsson handed Roberto Mancini's team the lead. Mario Balotelli's 14th goal of the season in the 69th minute ensured all three points and a five-point lead at the top of the table.
Nearest rivals Manchester United play Tottenham Hotspur at White Hart Lane on Sunday.
Bolton remain mired in trouble, level on 20 points with bottom side Wigan who also lost on Saturday going down 2-0 at home to Swansea City who despite the win stay in 14th place with 33 points.
Stoke City made it back-to-back wins in the league with 1-0 victory over Norwich at the Britannia Stadium -- a result which keeps them in eighth place.
Queens Park Rangers drew 1-1 with Everton at Loftus Road to rise to 16th in the table. West Brom's win means Everton drop to 11th.
An 85th-minute header from David Dunn earned Blackburn Rovers a point against Aston Villa who took the lead through Charles N'Zogbia in the 24th minute.
Steve Keen's team remain in 18th with 22 points while Villa stay in 15th.
Newcastle United take on Sunderland in the northeast derby on Sunday while Wolves travel to Fulham.
