A victim in the sexual abuse case against Jerry Sandusky has sued Penn State University, saying he couldn't reach a settlement with the university over claims that the longtime assistant football coach abused him.
The man, known only as "Victim 9," is one of 10 victims who were part of the criminal trial, in which the Nittany Lions' former defensive coordinator was convicted on 45 counts of sexual abuse in June 2012.
Since the trial, 26 men have settled claims with Penn State totaling $59.7 million in connection with the Sandusky scandal, the university announced last month.
Sandusky, currently serving a 30- to 60-year sentence, has always maintained that he is innocent and wrongly convicted of abusing young boys he met through his charity, The Second Mile.
Sandusky raises another appeal
Many of the victims were abused on Penn State's campus, and some even after two incidents allegedly were brought to the university's attention -- once in 1998 and again in 2001.
Victim 9 was raped repeatedly starting in 2005 when he was 12 years old, and ending around the time that another victim's allegations finally started a police investigation into Sandusky's decades of abuse.
"By the time this boy was introduced to Sandusky on the Penn State Campus, the top administrators at Penn State knew that Sandusky was a sexual predator," the man's attorney, Stephen E. Raynes, said in a press release. "It's now clear that Penn State enabled Sandusky to sexually abuse more than twenty other children before Sandusky preyed on this boy. Each of those tragic assaults provided Penn State with the opportunity to stop Sandusky, opportunities which Penn State squandered. We will learn through this lawsuit why that happened and what additional lessons Penn State should learn from this tragic episode in its history."
Penn State paying $59.7 million to settle Sandusky cases
Raynes said Victim 9 tried to negotiate a settlement with Penn State, but the university refused "to compensate him adequately for what he needs and deserves."
Penn State's former president, vice president and athletic director are all awaiting trial on charges they lied to a grand jury, obstructed justice and failed to report allegations of abuse reported to them in 2001.
The abuse scandal resulted in the dismissal, in November 2011, of legendary head coach Joe Paterno amid allegations that he failed to respond forcefully enough to reports of Sandusky's crimes. Paterno died just weeks later, on January 22, 2012, at age 85.
Penn State has said a few other claims by Sandusky victims have not yet been settled.
Investigators may take 2nd look at high school where Jerry Sandusky coached
