Barcelona and Manchester United are on course to meet again in the money-spinning European Champions League final after they avoided each other in the draw for the last eight.
Josep Guardiola's reigning champions Barca will face English Premier League side Arsenal in the quarterfinals -- a repeat of the 2006 final which the Spanish club won 2-1.
French striker Thierry Henry played for Arsenal in that game but has since joined Barca. Henry remains Arsenal's all-time leading goalscorer.
The draw for the quarterfinals of the tournament took place at the headquarters of European football's governing body (UEFA) in Nyon, Switzerland where the match-ups for the semifinals were also decided.
United will win the Champions League ... I feel it in my bones
Alex Ferguson's Manchester United were drawn against Bayern Munich, who they famously beat in the 1999 final. Bayern went in front after just six minutes of the final in Barcelona but United scored two injury time goals to stun the German side.
Dutch coach Louis van Gaal is attempting to secure Bayern Munich's first European crown since 2001, after they knocked out Italian side Juventus in the group stages.
Jose Mourinho's Inter Milan are playing first time quarterfinalists CSKA Moscow. The Italian champions dumped Mourinho's former club Chelsea out of the competition earlier this week.
There is no country seeding at the last eight stage, which led to Lyon and Bordeaux being drawn together. Their tie means France is assured a representative in the last four.
The Champions League is the most lucrative tournament in world football with the final worth an estimated $421 million, according to sponsors Mastercard, with the winners earning close to $150 million.
The quarterfinal ties will take place the week beginning March 29.
In the Europa League draw English Premier League team Liverpool were drawn against Portuguese club Benfica.
There is an all-Spanish tie in the last eight after Atletico Madrid and Valencia were drawn against each other.
If Liverpool get past Benfica they will face one of the Spanish teams in the semifinal, meaning either an emotional return for striker Fernando Torres to former club Atletico, or for manager Rafael Benitez to the team he used to coach, Valencia.
Juventus' conquerors Fulham were drawn against German champions Wolfsburg while Hamburg pulled Belgian side Standard Liege.
