Hundreds of children across the United States have been hospitalized with a serious respiratory illness. Scientists say they believe the bug to blame is Enterovirus D68, also known as EV-D68.
List of states with the Enterovirus
Enteroviruses are common, especially in September, but this particular type is not. There have been fewer than 100 cases recorded since it was identified in the 1960s, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Here's what you need to know as a parent:
What are the symptoms?
The virus usually starts like the common cold; symptoms include sneezing, a runny nose and a cough. This is all that happens for most people who catch an enterovirus.
But some patients will get a severe cough, have difficulty breathing and/or develop a rash. EV-D68 is sometimes also accompanied by a fever or wheezing.
So when should you begin worrying?
Unfortunately in the beginning it's difficult -- if not impossible -- to tell the difference between a regular cold and this type of virus. But there are symptoms you should be on the lookout for if your child becomes sick.
Go to the doctor if he or she develops a fever or a rash, or if your child has difficulty breathing. Children with asthma or a history of breathing problems are particularly susceptible for severe symptoms.
How is EV-D68 treated?
There is no specific treatment for enteroviruses, according to the CDC. Plenty of rest, fluids and over-the-counter medications will help ease symptoms in standard cases.
Patients who are hospitalized will likely receive assistance breathing and what's called "supportive therapy" to help their immune systems fight off the infection.
Where is the virus spreading?
Twelve states are investigating clusters of enterovirus illnesses: Alabama, Colorado, Michigan, Georgia, Ohio, Iowa, Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, Kentucky and Utah.
But EV-D68 is often hard to distinguish from its relatives so the virus could be in other states as well.
Enterovirus difficult to track
Why are kids being hospitalized?
Anyone can get infected with enteroviruses, according to the CDC, but infants, children and teens are more likely to become sick because they have not yet built up immunity from previous exposures to the viruses.
How do I protect my children?
The respiratory illness spreads through close contact, just like the common cold. You can also be infected by touching objects or surfaces that have the virus on them, then touching your face.
There's not a great deal you can do, health officials say, beyond taking common-sense steps to reduce the risk.
Wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds -- particularly after going to the bathroom and changing diapers.
Clean and disinfect surfaces that are regularly touched by different people, such as toys and doorknobs.
Avoid shaking hands, kissing, hugging and sharing cups or eating utensils with people who are sick. And stay home if you feel unwell.
