(CNN)  -- Tiger Woods battled to three-under-69 on the north course at Torrey Pines as he made a solid start to his 2011 PGA Tour campaign.
Woods, who has slipped to number three in the world rankings behind European pair Lee Westwood and Martin Kaymer, carded three birdies without a bogey to leave himself well-placed in the Farmers Insurance Open at tied for 22nd.
He was five shots behind leader Sunghoon Kang after the South Korean rookie claimed a one-stroke first-round advantage from Americans Rickie Fowler and Alex Prugh.
"I played alright today," Woods told the Golf Channel. "These are some of the narrowest fairways we've seen on tour, it was tough."
Woods has won seven times at his favorite venue in La Jolla in California, the last victory in 2008 at the U.S. Open.
That left him on 14 major wins, the run halted by first injury and then the damaging revelations of marital infidelities which led to a self-imposed exile from tournament golf.
Woods was paired with Rocco Mediate, who he beat in the famous playoff to win the 2008 U.S. Open despite being hampered by leg injuries. A third American, Anthony Kim, made up the group and shot 68.
Starting on the 10th in perfect playing conditions, Woods picked up birdies on the 12th, second and sixth.
A further birdie chance came at the seventh, but his putt slid by and a rare errant tee shot on the next left him in trouble in a fairway bunker.
His second shot failed to find the green, Woods hammering his club to the ground in frustration, but he showed his old powers of recovery with a pitch and single putt to save par.
He was also left frustrated after failing to gain his birdie on the par-five ninth after another indifferent drive, but has happy with his overall display.
Crowd favorite John Daly, who played the south course, was among the early clubhouse pacesetters with a superb five-under 67 and ended the day tied for fifth along with Woods' great rival Phil Mickelson and 2009 U.S. PGA champion Y.E. Yang of South Korea.
But it was Yang's 24-year-old compatriot Kang who took the first-day plaudits after a fine 64.
Also playing the north course and starting on the 10th, he carded three birdies and an eagle on his front nine and closed with three birdies in his last four holes for a flawless round.
On the same course, Prugh closed with four successive birdies after starting on the front nine, while last season's rookie of the year Fowler picked up a shot at the last playing from 10.
The 22-year-old's 65 featured one dropped shot but he still finished one ahead of 25-year-old American rookie Chris Kirk.
Last weekend's Bob Hope Classic winner, Venezuelan rookie Jhonattan Vegas, was one of 13 players on 69 along with Woods, U.S. Ryder Cup player Hunter Mahan and Colombian Camilo Villegas.
Mediate was tied for 54th in an even bigger group on 71 along with rookie Joseph Bramlett, the first African American golfer to earn a tour card through qualifying school in 25 years.
