Another action-packed day at Davos with some of the world's most pressing issues on the agenda.
Here are CNN's top pics for today, January 24:
At 1030CET/0430ET, the UK Prime Minister David Cameron, delivers his special address.
Bill Gates, a humanitarian and regular Davos attendee, will discuss the climate change and its impact of development with U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon at 1100CET/0500.
At 1130CET/0530ET, focus will turn to Germany's new government, as the country's Finance Minister Wolfgang Schauble and Peter Limbourg of Deutsche Welle discuss what to expect from the new coalition.
Rock star and activist Bono will Liberian President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and British PM David Cameron at 1315CET/0700ET in talking about the post-2015 development goals and how to inspire the generation to act.
Friday afternoon will be even busier: At 1415CET/0815ET, Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff addresses the forum, while at the same time, Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, Mohammad Javad Zarif, the Foreign Minister Iran and Masoud Barzani, the President of the Kurdistan Region in Iraq, look at the Middle East and how its transformation affects the younger generations.
1615CET/1015ET: With strong ties to both Europe and Russia, what will be the future economic and political orientation of Ukraine? President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych, Alexey Kudrin of Saint Petersburg State University and Ukrainian MP Petro Poroshenko will discuss the question.
At 1630CET/1030ET CNN's Fareed Zakaria takes the stage. He'll discus the future of ASEAN and its 600 million citizens with the CEO of Air Asia Anthony F. Fernandes, CEO of Lippo Group Thein Sein and Vietnamese deputy PM Pham Binh Minh.
And then at 1800, Zakaria joins political leaders of Tunisia and the Secretary General of the League of Arab States, Amr Moussa, to look at the leadership lessons they've learned since the Arab Spring.
CNN's John Defterios will lead a discussion on emerging markets and the next steps they should be taking at 1830CET/1230ET. Joining him will be French Finance minister Pierre Moscovici, IMF's Deputy Managing Director Min Zhu, Turkish deputy PM Ali Babacan, Paul Kagame, the President of Rwanda, economist Nouriel Roubini and CEO of Renault-Nissan Alliance, Carlos Ghosn.
Your Friday reading list:
Why world can't agree over climate change
Report: Climate change may pose threat to economic growth
Can companies win by investing in emerging markets?
