Two graduate students were found shot to death Thursday night in an apartment a block off the Louisiana State University campus, officials said.
LSU Chancellor Sean O'Keefe briefs reporters on the fatal shootings of two international graduate students.
No suspects have been identified in what police are investigating as a double homicide. Neighbors told police three strange men were seen in the area.
The bodies of Chandrasekhar Reddy Komma and Kiran Kumar Allam, both Ph.D. candidates from India, were found inside Allam's apartment at  the Edward Gay complex near the LSU band's practice field.
The complex houses graduate and married students.
A task force of LSU campus police and the Baton Rouge Police Department is investigating, university Chancellor Sean O'Keefe said.
"If anybody can find them, they can," O'Keefe told reporters Friday.  Watch O'Keefe discuss "a tragic situation" »
O'Keefe said campus police responded to a 911 call at 10:37 p.m. and encountered "a very, very tragic scene." Both men had been shot in the head. One was bound with phone cable and the other was lying near the door.
The apartment was cluttered and items were strewn about, so it has been difficult to determine whether anything was taken, O'Keefe said.
Emergency text messages were sent to students and faculty across the LSU campus late Thursday, but the campus remained open on Friday.
O'Keefe said officials decided against a campus lockdown after police determined that the slayings were not part "an escalating pattern."
People were warned in the text messages to use caution, but not all of the 8,000 students who had signed up for them received them, O'Keefe said. Officials are looking into what went wrong.
The Associated Press reported that Allam's pregnant wife found the bodies and called 911.
Although police have indicated they suspect the slayings occurred during a home invasion robbery, O'Keefe told reporters no motive has been determined. E-mail to a friend
Copyright 2007 CNN. All rights reserved.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press contributed to this report.
