British police said Thursday they have arrested a 39-year-old woman suspected of involvement in the hacking of voice mails of celebrities and politicians by British newspapers.
She's the fourth person arrested this year over a scandal that has forced the News of the World newspaper into a public apology and offers to pay compensation to victims, including actress Sienna Miller.
Three men were arrested in April and are currently on bail, police said.
The paper's royal reporter and a private investigator were sent to prison in 2007 for hacking into voice mails of staff working for Britain's royal family.
Police launched a new investigation this year into hacking by journalists in response to widespread complaints from politicians, celebrities and other high-profile figures who fear they have been targets.
British lawmaker Tom Watson earlier this month said in parliament that police have information that "strongly suggests" a second private investigator targeted royals, lawmakers and high-level terrorist informers on behalf of the News International media group.
Media tycoon Rupert Murdoch's News International owns the News of the World, plus the Sun and the Times in Britain.
British media said the targets included former Prime Minister Tony Blair and Kate Middleton when she was dating Prince William, the second in line to the throne. They married in April.
Buckingham Palace and Prince William's office at Clarence House both declined to comment.
The Metropolitan Police told CNN June 9 it "has received a number of allegations regarding breach of privacy.... These allegations are currently being considered."
News International rejected the accusation.
"With regards to Tom Watson's specific allegations, we believe these are wholly inaccurate," the company told CNN, adding that it was cooperating with ongoing police investigations into phone hacking and had not been asked about the work of the private investigator Watson named in Parliament.
But it said it was "well documented" that the investigator "worked for a whole variety of newspaper groups."
News of the World officially apologized in April for hacking into voice mails.
The Sunday tabloid newspaper offered compensation and "apologized unreservedly" for the "unacceptable" hacking. It did not name the victims.
Murdoch's media empire encompasses the Wall Street Journal, the New York Post, Fox News and Harper Collins publishers, as well as the Times and the Sun newspapers.
