(CNN Student News) -- November 8, 2013
A massive typhoon bears down on the Philippines, a popular social media service launches its IPO, and the U.S. FDA considers a policy shift on trans fats. CNN Student News offers up details on these stories. Then, we follow an Olympic torch's journey into space, and we discuss how gold grows on some trees. Plus, we reflect on the legacy of an iconic sports stadium.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
To what extent, if any, do news reports about potentially unhealthy foods affect viewers' eating habits?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. About how many minutes does it take for light from the sun to reach Earth: 8, 24, or 32?
2. What is the world's most spoken language?
3. What country launched an unmanned mission to Mars on Tuesday?
4. What Republican candidate was re-elected as New Jersey's governor?
5. Democratic candidate Bill de Blasio was elected mayor of what U.S. city?
6. What major, Hindu festival, whose name means "row of lights," began on November 3?
7. In what U.S. city would you find the Astrodome, the oldest domed stadium?
8. In what country were giant mirrors installed to provide reflected sunlight to the valley town of Rjukan?
9. Partially hydrogenated oils are a major source of what kind of controversial fats?
10. Police found more than 1,300 pieces of valuable art hidden in an apartment in what European country?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Philippines
Australia
North America
Houston, Texas
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
