Formula One driver Mark Webber has penned a new deal with Red Bull Racing, extending his contract with the team to the end of the 2013 season.
The Australian won his second race of the season at Sunday's rain-soaked British Grand Prix, closing the gap in the drivers' championship between himself and first-placed Fernando Alonso to 13 points.
"I've been with Red Bull Racing since 2007 and have achieved nine grand prix wins during that time," Webber told the team's official website.
"I'm high on confidence at the moment and firing on all cylinders. I know the team well and I'm very comfortable here; we have grown together over the years and it feels like absolutely the right thing to stay with Red Bull for another season."
Tire talk: Pirelli takes center stage in F1
Team principal Christian Horner said of the announcement: "Much of Mark's Formula One success has been during his time with Red Bull Racing and together we have achieved 10 poles, nine wins and 31 podiums.
"As there was a strong desire from both sides to continue the partnership, it was a logical decision to extend our relationship and it is with great pleasure that we confirm Mark will drive for us in 2013."
Much was made of a possible move to Italian rivals Ferrari at the end of the current season, but Webber has dismissed the speculation, stating: "There were discussions with Ferrari, but my decision was to stay here."
With the combined efforts of Webber and double world champion Sebastian Vettel, Red Bull currently hold an imperious lead at the top of the constructors' championship, 64 points ahead of Ferrari, who have failed to finish top since 2008.
The relationship between the two Red Bull drivers has often been perceived as less than amicable, with tempers flaring when they crashed into each other during the Turkish Grand Prix in 2010. But Webber was quick to dispel any notion of hostilities.
On his partnership with the German, Webber said: "Obviously with Seb, we've worked very, very close together for a long period of time now. I think no-one would really have envisaged how long we have worked together, so that's probably been a bit of a surprise.
"There are not many teammates staying together for that long in Formula One, but it's proved to be a successful partnership with both of us working very hard with the key technical members of the team.
"It's been a potent operation. We're still competitive when we hit the track. Last year there wasn't much racing between Sebastian and I, but in 2009, 2010 and this year, there have been some great battles."
When asked about his future beyond the 2013 season, Webber remained enigmatic.
"It's a results-based sport at the front of the grid so the future lies in my own hands," said the 35-year-old. "It's down to me to deliver the on-track results."
