The million-dollar questions have been answered. What are the Powerball numbers, and have any winning tickets been sold?
Lottery officials released the winning numbers for the largest multistate Powerball jackpot: 22, 10,13,14, 52, and the Powerball number is 11.
One winning ticket was sold at a Publix supermarket in Zephyrhills, Florida, according to David Bishop, deputy secretary of the Florida lottery.
Saturday's jackpot is a record $590.5 million. It marks the largest in Powerball history, surpassing a $587.6 million jackpot split by winners in Arizona and Missouri in November.
The jackpot has a cash value of $376.9 million.
"I buy mine here all the time. Yesterday, I was in Naples. I bought it in Naples, That's just my luck," Butch Gonzalez, a regular lottery player, told CNN affiliate Bay News 9 outside the Publix in Zephyrhills.
"I just hope whoever won really needs the money, and I hope they do right by it," he said.
The largest lottery jackpot in U.S. history was $656 million in the Mega Millions game in March 2012. That was split among three tickets sold in Illinois, Kansas and Maryland.
If there had been no winner in Saturday's Powerball, the jackpot would have shot up to $925 million for Wednesday's drawing, according to Kelly Cripe, spokeswoman for the Texas Lottery, which is part of the Powerball game.
Powerball is played in 43 states, the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands. A single ticket costs $2, and the odds of winning the jackpot are 1 in 175,223,510.
Why you keep playing the lottery
Hate to break it to you, but you stand a better chance of walking onto the golf course and hitting two consecutive holes in one than winning the jackpot.
But that didn't stop hundreds from driving to the Trex Mart in Dearborn, Missouri, where one of two winning tickets was sold in last year's $587 million Powerball drawing.
About 100 people an hour were buying tickets at the store.
At a convenience store in Riverside, Missouri, Jim Mansell said he was buying only one ticket.
"I figure if the good Lord intends you to win, you only need one ticket," he told CNN affiliate KCTV5. "But I don't know if the good Lord believes in gambling or not."
In Florida, winners must claim prizes at a state lottery retailer or lottery district office on or before the 180th day after the drawing. Any Powerball retailer in the state can validate a winning ticket.
CNN's Scott Thompson and Jake Carpenter contributed to the report.
