Misty Croslin, the last person known to see a 5-year-old Florida girl before she was reported missing on February 9, 2009, faces a sentence of up to 210 years in prison after pleading no contest Monday to unrelated drug charges.
Croslin entered no contest pleas to seven counts of trafficking prescription drugs before a Putnam County, Florida, judge, said Chris Kelly, a spokesman for the state attorney's office. Each first-degree count carries a sentence of up to 30 years in prison.
Croslin has a St. John's County court appearance Tuesday on a single trafficking charge. All the counts stem from a series of incidents between around January of this year, during which Croslin allegedly sold hydrocodone to undercover officers.
Calls to Croslin's attorney, Robert Fields, were not immediately returned Monday. Kelly said that in terms of sentencing, there's no distinction between pleading no contest to a felony and pleading guilty.
At the time Haleigh Cummings went missing, Croslin was 17 and lived in the family's mobile home with her then-husband, Ronald Cummings, and the girl and her 4-year-old brother.
Croslin and Ronald Cummings were both arrested in January along with three others after allegedly selling about $3,900 worth of drugs to undercover officers, authorities said. The two divorced after Haleigh's disappearance.
Croslin told police she tucked Haleigh and the brother into bed about 8 p.m. February 8, 2009, and went to sleep two hours later.
She said she awoke at 3 a.m. to find Haleigh missing and a cinder block propping open a back door. Ronald Cummings reported Haleigh missing when he returned from work at dawn.
Police have said Cummings and Crystal Sheffield, the girl's mother, are not considered suspects. Authorities believe Haleigh is dead and are treating the case as a homicide investigation.
Authorities have previously said physical evidence contradicts Croslin's account of the events that night. However, police have stopped short of naming Croslin as a suspect. In televised interviews, Croslin has said she does not know what happened to Haleigh but believes "the other side of the family" knows where she is.
