CSKA Moscow will play its next home European Champions League match with part of its stadium closed as punishment for racism offenses.
Manchester City complained its players had been subjected to "monkey chants" during a match against CSKA at the Arena Khimki on October 23.
European football's governing body UEFA announced the sanction on Wednesday, warning CSKA that further incidents of racism would results in graver punishments.
"The UEFA Control and Disciplinary Body has handed down sanctions to CSKA Moscow following incidents during their UEFA Champions League home game against Manchester City," read a UEFA statement.
"Specifically, the Control and Disciplinary Body has decided to close sector D of the stadium during the club's next UEFA competition home match.
"CSKA's next home fixture is scheduled against Bayern Munich in the UEFA Champions League on 27 November in Moscow.
"The fight against racism is a high priority for UEFA ... All forms of racist behavior are considered serious offenses against the disciplinary regulations and are punished with the most severe sanctions."
City's Ivorian midfielder Yaya Toure declared himself "furious" in a post-match interview with the club's TV channel, calling on UEFA to "ban them (CSKA) for a couple of years."
Two former Premier League footballers were far from impressed with the sanction meted out to the Russian club, taking to Twitter to criticize the decision.
"Wow. Partial closure of stadium for 1 match for racist abuse for CSKA Moscow! Those boys at UEFA are sooo tough!" opined former Southampton player Matt Le Tissier, who now works as a football pundit.
Another former player who has also gone into broadcasting - Stan Collymore - was similarly scathing.
"I'm a racist. I'm going to move to section E against Bayern ... more Uefa clownery," wrote the former Nottingham Forest and Liverpool player.
Nonetheless, UEFA regulations state that a first racism offense should be punished with a partial stadium closer, a second incident of discrimination would results in a full stadium closure for one match and a €50,000 ($68,000) fine.
Any club found guilty of racism a third time faces the prospect of multiple matches behind closed doors, the forfeiting of a match, deduction of points or expulsion from a competition.
