German striking legend Miroslav Klose has signed a two-year contract with Italian side Lazio, following his failure to agree a new deal with Bayern Munich.
The 33-year-old leaves the Bavarian giants after four years at the club, although he endured a disappointing season just gone, scoring just once after making most of his 20 appearances from the substitutes' bench.
Klose, who is joint second with compatriot Gerd Mueller in the list of all-time World Cup scorers with 14 goals in three different tournaments, told reporters: "I am looking forward to this new experience and want to help Lazio get back up the Serie A table."
Liverpool close to Henderson deal
Speaking about the transfer, Lazio sporting director Igli Tare told German channel Sport1: "We hope he brings his skills to us and scores the goals to put Lazio back up where we belong, to be one of Europe's biggest clubs."
Klose, who has netted 61 goals in 109 appearances for Germany and is closing in on Mueller's all-time record of 68 goals, is keen to play in the finals of Euro 2012 and his move hias been welcomed by his national coach Joachim Loew.
Loew told reporters: "It's good for Miroslav if he plays at a club where he is used regularly again."
Klose made his debut for Germany in March 2001, in a 2-1 victory over Albania, and made his name at Kaiserslautern before joining Werder Bremen in 2004 and then Bayern in 2007.
He helped Bayern win the German league and cup double in his first year at the club and helped them reclaim the league title in 2010, as well as reaching the final of the Champions League, where they lost to Inter Milan.
Meanwhile, Liverpool have completed the biggest signing of the close season so far with the $33m capture of England international midfielder Jordan Henderson from Premier League rivals Sunderland.
The 20-year-old has signed a long-term deal with the club and becomes manager Kenny Dalglish's third signing, followingon from Andy Carroll and Luis Suarez, since he returned for a second spell in charge at Anfield.
Henderson told Liverpool's official website: "Obviously it's hard to leave your local club. I'm a Sunderland lad, I've supported them all my life.
"But I'm really looking forward to the future now and obviously this is a massive opportunity for me. I'm really excited by it."
