Lionel Messi celebrated his second successive world player of the year award with a hat-trick as Spanish champions Barcelona crushed division two team Real Betis 5-0 in the first leg of their Copa del Rey quarterfinal on Wednesday night.
The Argentina forward, who headed off clubmates Andres Iniesta and Xavi to win the FIFA Ballon d'Or on Monday, proved the difference after the visitors provided stern early resistance.
The 23-year-old finally broke the deadlock a minute before halftime with a delightful chip, and the tie was effectively over ahead of next week's second leg when he completed his treble with 17 minutes to play.
Betis deserved better for their first-half efforts, highlighted by Ruben Castro crashing a shot against the crossbar soon after Messi's opener.
Why were EPL players snubbed in all-star selection?
But in the end they had goalkeeper Casto to thank that the scoreline was not even greater as he bravely thwarted a succession of Barca attacks.
As it was, Pedro made it 4-0 on 76 with his 13th goal in 14 games after Casto blocked Daniel Alves' initial effort, and Seydou Keita headed the fifth with seven minutes to play as he rose high to meet Iniesta's outrageous scooped cross.
Midfielder Iniesta also had an assist with Messi's first, while the second came in the 62nd minute following a pass from David Villa as the diminutive hero of the Catalan crowd squeezed home from an acute angle after Casto beat out his first attempt.
Messi took his tally to 31 for the season when he won a one-on-one duel with the keeper, but Casto denied him a fourth from a similar situation before he was substituted.
Messi claims World Player of the Year award
Josep Guardiola's team, seeking a 26th King's Cup crown, are now unbeaten in 29 matches in all competitions since the shock loss to Hercules in early September.
In Wednesday's other quarterfinal tie, cup holders Sevilla battled back to earn a 3-3 draw away to third-placed La Liga side Villarreal.
The home team twice led by two goals, as Cani and Italy forward Giuseppe Rossi made it 2-0 inside the opening half hour.
Striker Alvaro Negredo replied with the first of his two goals six minutes before halftime but Marco Ruben restored Villarreal's advantage 10 minutes after the break.
Blatter hails La Liga as 'best in the world'
Negredo leveled on the hour mark and defender Alexis Ruano grabbed a crucial third away goal ahead of the decider at the Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan.
On Thursday, 17-time winners Real Madrid host city rivals Atletico while Deportivo La Coruna travel to Almeria in a clash between two of La Liga's struggling teams.
Inter Milan moved into the quarterfinals of the Italian Cup on Wednesday night as the defending champions won 3-2 at home to Genoa with two goals from striker Samuel Eto'o.
The Cameroon star struck in the 15th minute and again just before halftime with a fierce half-volley for his 21st this season, but Genoa midfielder Houssine Kharja reduced the deficit nine minutes after the break with a penalty following a foul by debutant defender Andrea Ranocchia -- playing against his former club.
Kenyan midfielder MacDonald Mariga restored Inter's two-goal advantage with a header from a corner five minutes later, and Giuseppe Sculli's reply in time added on was just a consolation.
Palermo also progressed into the last eight of the Coppa Italia with a 1-0 win at home to Chievo, as Fabrizio Miccoli scored the only goal from the penalty spot with 10 minutes left.
