(CNN Student News) -- March 12, 2014
There's a new development - but still no closure - in the search for a missing passenger plane in Southeast Asia. Today, we'll tell you what a transponder is and how it fits into the puzzle. We also cover three space travelers' return from the ISS, and we explain some reasons for and effects of deforestation.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What sources do you think you would have had for credible information in the days before the Internet?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. transponder
2. Tim Berners-Lee
3. circadian rhythm
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What do we now know about Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? Where is the C-130 aircraft seen in the video searching for the plane? Why does the Malaysian defense minister say he is overwhelmed? How can you tell that he is determined to find the plane and its passengers?
2. What countries were represented by astronauts who just returned to Earth from the International Space Station? What vehicle did they use to return to Earth?
3. What technical innovation made its debut 25 years ago this week? Who created it? What were the first Web pages like? According to the video: What percentage of Americans had Internet access six years after the World Wide Web was introduced? What percentage has access today?
4. How do circadian rhythms influence sleep patterns? According to the report, what happens when your body gets too far off track from these natural cycles?
5. What is palm oil? How is it obtained? What statement has the Mars Company made about how it's going to get its palm oil? What is deforestation? Where is it common? What are its causes? How can deforestation affect the environment?
Discussion Questions:
1. How does current space exploration illustrate one benefit of international cooperation? Are there any other stories in today's show that demonstrate international cooperation? Explain.
2. Talk to your parents or other family members about what life was like in the days before the Internet. Where did they go for information and entertainment? Do they feel that the Internet has had a positive or negative impact on their overall quality of life?
3. How does a lack of sleep affect you? If you live in an area that observes Daylight Saving Time, did the time change impact your sleep pattern? Explain. What advice would you give students who don't seem to get enough sleep?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
