Democrats are looking to turn up the heat on Republican Rep. Bill Cassidy as he heads into the final days of his runoff battle with Louisiana Sen. Mary Landrieu with two ethics complaints focused on his work at Louisiana State University.
Both a Louisiana citizen affiliated with the Louisiana Democratic Party and the American Democracy Legal Fund filed complaints with the Office of Congressional Ethics on Wednesday alleging that Cassidy's work for the university violates multiple ethics rules and guidelines and calling for an investigation.
The ADLF complaint, obtained by CNN, alleges that Cassidy failed to receive required approval from the Ethics Committee to engage in teaching activities from 2011-2014.
Lawmakers are banned from receiving any "honoraria" — meaning a payment for an appearance, speech or article — while serving in office, but teaching activities are exempt from that ban. The complaint against Cassidy also argues that his work for LSU did not meet the requirements to be considered teaching work, and thus wasn't exempt from the ban.
Instead, it argues, his work amounts essentially to "medical services," and so the stipend he received from LSU for his teaching services should be considered compensation in violation of Ethics rules. That stipend was also, the complaint alleges, inappropriately left off of his personal disclosure forms.
And it also argues that Cassidy received compensation from LSU for months when he didn't put in any hours there, meaning the compensation constitutes a gift in excess of the $100 limit lawmakers must adhere to.
The LDP complaint outlines similar concerns.
Cassidy's campaign did not respond to a request for comment.
It's an effort from Democrats to highlight a late-breaking controversy surrounding Cassidy's employment with the school. Documents published last week by a number of local Louisiana political blogs suggest Cassidy might have billed the school for more hours of work than he completed.
Cassidy and his campaign advisers have pushed back against the allegations, arguing they're entirely baseless and simply an effort from Landrieu's campaign to try overcome some of the deep deficit she faces in the polls. She's considered a serious underdog in Saturday's showdown.
Landrieu's campaign has vehemently denied that it had anything to do with the documents coming to light, but Bob Mann, an LSU professor and veteran Louisiana political reporter, told CNN on Tuesday he had heard from multiple news outlets in Louisiana that Democratic operatives had been shopping the documents around for at least a month, and found no takers.
He said despite the continuing developments in the situation, he thought it was too late in the race for it to change the tide.
"It's one of those things that I think just happened a little too late to really make a difference. It almost feels like last-minute desperation kind of stuff," he said.
