(CNN Student News) -- December 11, 2013
A massive gathering of world leaders, a historic decision by an American carmaker, and a temperature lower than any other headline today's edition of CNN Student News. We also look at proposed changes to an internationally recognized symbol, and we show you how three people rang in a new record for charity.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why are funerals of world leaders often televised? What effect might watching a world leader's funeral have on viewers?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Air Force One
2. Antarctica
3. International Symbol of Accessibility
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Which U.S. presidents traveled to Nelson Mandela's memorial service aboard Air Force One? According to the video, how have shared trips among current and former presidents impacted their lives?
2. Mary Barra is the first female head of what major U.S. automaker? What do we know about her background?
3. Where is the coldest place on Earth, according to a recent measurement? What was the measured record temperature? Why are some scientists questioning this record?
Discussion Questions:
1. What criteria do you think might have determined who would speak at Nelson Mandela's memorial service? What do you think it says about Mandela's life that yesterday's memorial service was held in a stadium and broadcast globally?
2. How do you think that a female CEO might inspire women and men in the workforce? What do you think of GM's decision to name a woman as CEO?
3. What are some places where you have seen the International Symbol of Accessibility? In your opinion, should this symbol be changed? What is your opinion of the proposed new symbol?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
South Africa
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
