(CNN Student News) -- April 16, 2014
A city pays tribute to the men and women who embody the phrase "Boston Strong" on the first anniversary of the Boston Marathon terrorist bombings. Dr. Sanjay Gupta shows us how scientists testing for Ebola have to protect themselves against the deadly virus. And a week-long event celebrates the value and contributions of America's libraries.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might news coverage of the anniversary of a tragedy impact viewers?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. vaccine
2. FAFSA
3. National Library Week
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What city's marathon was struck by terrorist bombings one year ago? How did some there observe the one-year anniversary of this tragedy?
2. What are some precautions that scientists take when handling blood samples that could contain the Ebola virus? Why do they have to go to these lengths to protect themselves? Where would the samples have to be tested a few years ago? What were some of the problems associated with transporting the samples so far away?
3. What is a FAFSA? What institutions use this information, and for what purpose?
4. What is an AUV? How is the AUV "Bluefin-21" helping investigators who are searching for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? How are oceanographers benefitting from this search? Why haven't they been able to do this kind of research on their own? According to the video: What is one potential obstacle to those looking for the plane? How does this obstacle present an opportunity for scientists?
Discussion Questions:
1. In your opinion, what are some ways to honor the memory of victims of a terrorist attack?
2. What kinds of information do you think that oceanographers may be able to learn as a result of the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? If you were a scientist, what questions would you like to see answered? How might scientists use the search to make a case for greater ocean exploration?
3. In the video, we hear that a recent survey indicated that 94 percent of respondents said that having a library in their community improves their lives, yet just over half of those polled said people don't need libraries as much as they used to. Is there a public library in your community? If so, how often do you go there? Do you think having a public library improves your community's quality of life? State your rationale.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
