Former porn star Jenna Jameson was charged with battery over the weekend after police said she assaulted someone.
The incident took place in Orange County on Saturday evening, police said.
Authorities released bare-bones information about the incident Sunday night, saying little more than the person who was assaulted made a citizen's arrest and called officers.
Jameson, 38, knows the person, but Newport Beach Police Lt. Evan Sailor said he didn't know what their relationship was.
Police took Jameson to the Newport Beach Police Jail. She was later released without having to post bail.
The battery charge is a misdemeanor.
No one from the Jameson camp was available for comment.
On Sunday afternoon, however, Jameson took to Twitter to offer a post that said she was robbed by a friend who "broke into my home and took everything."
Jameson added that the friend "accused me of gusting her."
At the height of her success, Jameson was an industry unto herself. She appeared in countless adult films, magazines, and strip clubs -- and as CEO of ClubJenna Inc., launched a film production and online licensing company.
In a 2004 interview with CNN following the publication of her book, "How to Make Love Like a Porn Star: A Cautionary Tale," Jameson said she chose the right profession.
"I mean, I've always been so overtly sexual. And I've always been driven to succeed at something that hasn't always been accepted by the American public," she told CNN's Anderson Cooper. "So I think I chose the right profession."
She retired from porn in 2008.
In recent years, the mother of twins has found herself in the headlines for her brushes with the law.
Last May, she crashed her Range Rover into a light pole in Orange County. Police charged her with driving under the influence.
In April 2010, the father of her twin boys, mixed martial artist Tito Ortiz, was charged with domestic violence when Jameson's father called police as Ortiz and Jameson argued.
Ortiz and his lawyer told reporters later that he was upset because he thought Jameson had relapsed in her rehabilitation from a prescription drug addiction.
Four days after the incident, Jameson was captured by cameras alternately saying Ortiz was "the sweetest, most amazing man" and saying that he had beaten her.
