To say that "Real Housewives of New York City" star Ramona Singer is busy would be an understatement. Between her different businesses -- wine, jewelry and skin-care products -- and the time she spends filming the Bravo reality show, Singer is hardly ever in the same location for very long.
But Singer's passion remains with New York City, where she still manages to spend most of her time. A busy lifestyle doing what she loves suits Singer just fine, and New York is the best place for her.
The buzz of the city is what Singer loves most. "You can be all by yourself and you walk out on the street and then you're not alone, but surrounded by tons of people. It just has such great energy."
Here, Singer shares some of her favorite locations in New York City.
Where to eat
T-Bar Steak & Lounge 1278 Third Avenue
A swanky spot on the Upper East Side, T-Bar is known for its flair and of course, its steaks. Grabbing a cocktail here is an easy way for Singer to unwind.
"I love this restaurant and it's in my neighborhood. It's a place I can go by myself and get a bite to eat. I can go with girlfriends, I can go with my husband, they have a great area where you can just hang out and have drinks and appetizers or a whole meal. It just has a nice vibe, a nice local place."
The Standard Grill  848 Washington Street
With a wide variety of menus from breakfast to "late night," The Standard Grill  offers items from a $1 "good pickle" to the $95 porterhouse steak for two. The restaurant is at the bottom of the trendy Standard Hotel, under the High Line Park.
Singer makes tracks to the hotel's 18th floor, where the Top of the Standard lounge (also known as the Boom Boom Room) offers a fun mix of decadence and hip 70s throwback atmosphere.
"I can go on top and have drinks at the Boom Boom Room -- very art deco, chic, a must-see place. The view is floor-to-ceiling glass, absolutely beautiful. It's breathtaking."
Where to shop
Bergdorf Goodman Fifth Avenue
A store with history and designer finds unlike any other, Bergdorf Goodman is like a one-stop shop for Singer, who has little time for shopping. The variety and helpful sales staff makes this one of her top places in New York.
"They have great sales and a great selection. And unlike something you buy in one of the boutiques, you can return it -- because once in a blue moon, I do make a mistake. I love the Sixth floor, they have all of the contemporary designers, like Milly, Rebecca Taylor, Theory.
"I'm always on the go: traveling, running, doing, multi-tasking. I need a place I feel really comfortable, where I get great service and has a great selection."
Michael Kors 790 Madison Avenue
A jewelry designer, Singer can appreciate affordable, fantastic fashion. Michael Kors' new line of accessories is a favorite of Singer and her daughter, with a wide range of watches for about $250.
"I'm in love with their watches, they're oh-so-unbelievable. People ask me and I tell them, 'It's not a Rolex, it's a Michael Kors.' They also have great shoes and handbags."
Favorite spot in Central Park
The Central Park Boathouse East 60th Street
When Singer needs an escape, she visits the Boathouse for its relaxing scenery, good eats and recreation.
"It's the best-kept secret in New York, beyond stunning and gorgeous. It's on the water, so you can have lunch or dinner outside along the waterfront. You can also ride bikes there or grab a bite from a concession stand."
