EasyJet's no-frills aircraft seem an unlikely choice for cabin connoisseurs, but the airline says its customers do have preferences.
After polling 10,000 passengers from across Europe and analyzing its own sales data, the UK-based airline claims to have identified the continent's favorite seat: 7F.
EasyJet says nationality, age and travel companion all influence the cabin position of choice, but clear trends emerge, with one seen as the most highly desired.
It says window seats are generally the most coveted, with 59% preferring to gawp out of a lightly frosted lozenge of perspex than confront the reality of flying super economy.
EasyJet says seventh row seats on its short haul routes are typically offered at rock-bottom rates of just a few dollars, hence their popularity.
"Sales also reveal the right-hand side of the plane is more popular than the left and rows 6-7 sell out fastest," it says in a statement.
End of the undignified scramble
The most unpopular seat is identified as 19C.
Other stats offer insight into national preferences.
Portuguese passengers apparently covet the window the most, while Dutch and Germans are more tolerant of aisle seating.
Nervous fliers also prefer the window, while older passengers are more likely to choose the aisle.
"The window versus aisle debate is one of the most frequently overheard conversations while flying," says Peter Duffy, group commercial director for EasyJet.
EasyJet notably introduced selective seating for all passengers only two years ago.
Prior to 2012, non-premium paying customers faced an undignified scramble to find somewhere to park themselves.
The survey isn't the first attempt to crunch the numbers on the perfect place to savor the joys of pressurized air and over-stewed dinners.
A 2012 study of passengers on 40-row Boeing 757 by Skyscanner said 6A beat the rest, probably because it offered easier disembarking and was away from the toilets.
Opinion: How cool is the airplane of the future?
See-through cabins and passenger pods: Is this the future of flight?
Do you have a favorite cabin seat? Let us know below.
