American tennis star Serena Williams is hoping to keep up her blistering momentum after a landmark victory at the Family Circle Cup in Charleston --- the 40th WTA Tour title of her illustrious career.
Williams thrashed ninth-seeded Czech Lucie Safarova 6-0 6-1 in Sunday's final, and insisted she'd never played so consistently at such a high level in a career that has brought the 30-year-old 13 grand slam singles titles.
"I hope I can make it three and four and five and six and more and more and more," the former world No. 1 said on the WTA website after returning to the top 10 of the women's rankings.
"I definitely want to continue this. I've never played so consistently at such a high level with low errors like this, and the scary thing is I could have served so much better."
Williams took just 58 minutes to defeat Safarova, hitting 27 winners to eight as she topped off an impressive performance at the opening event of the tour's clay-court season.
She lost just 15 games all week in South Carolina, crushing world No. 5 Samantha Stosur 6-1 6-1 in Saturday's semifinals to avenge the Australian's win over her older sister Venus in the previous round. It was the first time this year she has got past the quarterfinals of a tournament.
Serena is just the third player still on the WTA circuit to notch up 40 titles, alongside Venus (43) and Belgium's former world No. 1 Kim Clijsters (41).
It was her second success at Charleston, following a 2008 triumph, and fourth on clay after winning both the French Open and the Italian Open in 2002.
However, following more than a year on the sidelines after winning the 2010 Wimbledon title, she now has no substantial ranking points to defend until July.
"In June, Wimbledon, I didn't do anything. Eastbourne I won one match, so that doesn't count. I did pretty well in the summer, but then I dropped off again until this tournament. So I really am like a floating bird," the ninth-ranked Williams said.
"It's motivating for me to go home and work harder, because I know Lucie and Sam and everyone is going to work hard, too. Now they know what to expect even more when they play me. This is a battle, and I want to continue to win."
Safarova didn't leave Charleston empty-handed, however, securing her first WTA doubles title alongside Russia's Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova as they beat Spaniards Anabel Medina Garrigues and Yaroslava Shvedova 5-7 6-4 10-6.
"Nastia and I got our first wildcard in Miami and made the quarters, and here we got our second wildcard and won it. I like doubles. I really enjoy playing doubles and it seems we fit as partners," Safarova said.
