English Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur have confirmed the appointment of former Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas as their new head coach.
The 34-year-old lasted just nine months at Tottenham's London rivals, and was sacked in March after a run of disappointing results left them languishing in sixth place in the league.
Prior to his spell at Stamford Bridge Villas-Boas enjoyed a record-breaking first season at Portuguese club Porto, winning a domestic double as well as the Europa League.
He replaces Harry Redknapp who was dismissed by Tottenham three weeks ago.
"Tottenham Hotspur is a great club with a strong tradition and fantastic support, both at home and throughout the world," Villas-Boas told the club's official website.
"I feel privileged to be its coach. For me, this is one of the most exciting coaching positions in the Premier League.
"I have had several discussions with the chairman and the board and I share their vision for the future progress of the club.
"This is a squad any coach would love to work with and together I believe we can bring success in the seasons ahead."
Redknapp guided Tottenham to fourth place in the Premier League last season but the club missed out on European Champions League qualification after Chelsea won the continent's premier club competition.
That triumph, overseen by Villas-Boas' successor at Stamford Bridge, former player Roberto Di Matteo, meant Chelsea took Tottenham's place by virtue of being crowned champions.
Di Matteo has since been appointed Chelsea's permanent boss, while Villas-Boas has swapped one London club for another.
Tottenham's chairman Daniel Levy, said of the appointment: "I am delighted that Andre has agreed to become our new Head Coach.
"He has an outstanding reputation for his technical knowledge of the game and for creating well-organized teams capable of playing football in an attractive and attacking style.
"Andre shares our long-term ambitions and ethos of developing players and nurturing young talent, and he will be able to do so now at a new world class Training Centre."
