Andy Murray recorded a double triumph on Tuesday to book his place in the last eight at Wimbledon, over opponent Marin Cilic and the dismal weather in London.
After a day punctuated by rain delays on Monday, Murray was able to wrap up a 7-5 6-2 6-3 victory with just one interruption before damp conditions halted the action on all but Centre Court.
Murray will now face Spain's David Ferrer -- who knocked him out of the recent French Open -- after the Spaniard defeated Juan Del Potro, from Argentina, 6-3 6-2 6-3.
British No. 1 Murray said he was relieved to finish his clash against Croatian Cilic after a frustrating Monday in which play was suspended with the score 7-5 3-1.
There was criticism of the tournament's organizers after Murray's match wasn't switched to Centre Court, which has a retractable roof, but he told reporters: "I honestly don't care which court I play on.
"It makes no difference but obviously every player would rather be on Centre Court because you know you are going to get your match in regardless of the weather.
"I don't think I deserve to play every match on Centre Court. It's just annoying when the weather is bad.
"I haven't always dealt with rain delays that well in the past, so it's good experience for me. Probably from now on I will play on Centre so it won't be a problem."
Ferrer, the No. 7 seed, breezed through his match on the sheltered showpiece court, defeating 2009 U.S. Open champion Del Potro in just under two hours.
He told the ATP Tour's official website: "Today was one of my best matches [on a grass] court. But I'm not sure if is my best or not. At Wimbledon, there is a lot of wind.
"On an indoor court, under a roof, it is easier for us to play. The ball does not move and this is more comfortable for us."
Murray and Ferrer were joined in the quarters by German pair Philipp Kohlschreiber and Florian Mayer.
Mayer, the No. 31 seed, reached the last eight at Wimbledon for only the second time after he defeated Frenchman Richard Gasquet 6-3 6-1 3-6 6-2.
His reward for reaching his first quarterfinal in eight years is a tie with world No. 1 and defending champion Novak Djokovic.
"It's an unbelievable feeling. Eight years ago I was here in the quarters, and now eight years later it's happened again. So it's a wonderful dream for me," Mayer told reporters.
Kohlschreiber battled past U.S. qualifier Brian Baker 6-1 7-6 6-3 to make the last eight of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time in 33 attempts.
The No. 27 seed will now play French No. 5 seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga after he recorded a 4-6 7-6 6-4 6-4 win over American No.10 Mardy Fish in another rain-hit match.
"I'm very, very happy," said Kohlschreiber. "It's very tough to describe the real feelings. I'm very happy how I played.
"Also, lucky, at the end, with the weather, that I could finish my match. It's just an amazing feeling. For sure I will celebrate. I have a lot of confidence now. I like the courts."
The last quarterfinal sees 16-time major champion Roger Federer, the No. 3 seed, take on Russia's Mikhail Youzhny.
