London (CNN)British former pop star Gary Glitter has been found guilty of child sex abuse for crimes he committed more than three decades ago.
The 70-year-old Glitter, whose real name is Paul Gadd, was convicted Thursday of one count of attempted rape of a girl under the age of 13, one count of having sex with a girl under the age of 13, and four counts of indecent assault against girls, two aged under 13 and two aged under 16.
The six offenses were committed against three victims between 1975 and 1980. Glitter is due to be sentenced on February 27.
Glitter was known as a "glam rocker" in the 1970s for his flamboyant clothes and performing style. He sold  18 million records with hits like "I'm the Leader of the Gang," "I Love You Love Me Love" and "Rock 'n' Roll."
Detective Chief Inspector Michael Orchard of London's Metropolitan Police praised the courage of the victims in coming forward to police, years after the crimes were committed, in a statement after the verdict.
"Paul Gadd has shown himself to be a habitual sexual predator, who took advantage of the star status afforded to him by targeting young girls who trusted him and were in awe of his fame," Orchard said.
"His lack of remorse and defense that the victims were lying make his crimes all the more indefensible. I am pleased the jury was able to see through this."
Glitter has been prosecuted previously on sex charges.
In 1999, he admitted possessing child pornography and was jailed for four months. While living in Vietnam, he was convicted of sex offenses against young girls and jailed for nearly three years before being deported to England.
Glitter is the latest celebrity to be accused or convicted of historic sex offenses. Radio and television star Jimmy Savile, who died in 2011 aged 84, was revealed after his death to have been one of Britain's most prolific sex offenders. British police say more than 200 victims -- aged between five and 75 -- have been identified. Last year celebrity publicist Max Clifford was sentenced to eight years' imprisonment for assaults on girls, while Australian entertainer Rolf Harris was jailed for five years for indecent assaults against four girls.
CNN's Ralph Ellis contributed to this report.
