When it comes to hotel pools, the indoor variety has long played second fiddle to their outdoor -- often rooftop -- counterparts. But these days, striking décor, luxury amenities and stunning settings mean many indoor swimming holes can now challenge even the most glamorous of outdoor pools.
And with seasons in tumultuous transition, indoor pools, which are not prey to weather, offer a little bit of an edge. So go ahead and take a dip at these eight luxurious indoor pools.
The Water Club at Borgata, Atlantic City
This nongaming hotel, which is part of the large Borgata complex in Atlantic City, has three indoor pools (and two more outdoors) so there's really no reason for things to get crowded at any of them. A two-lane lap pool is in the two-floor Immersion spa on the 32nd floor and is set against full-length windows that look out to the Atlantic Ocean, the perfect setup for a water workout. A stunning top-floor pool surrounded by lounge chairs, cabanas and lush foliage telegraphs a more exotic tropical scene than the property's Jersey Shore location. Rooms from $149/night. www.theborgata.com
And the world's greatest beach is ...
Shangri-La Paris
Tucked inside what used to be Napoleon's grandnephew Roland Bonaparte's Parisian home, the 15-by-6-meter, light-bathed pool area (which was previously Bonaparte's stables) extends out to an expansive, plant-lined terrace. All around the pool, which features mosaic tiles inspired to look like Asian carpet, are chic traditional French touches like floral bas relief on the walls and columns surrounding the mezzanine. Rooms from $895/night. www.shangri-la.com
Altira Macau
On the 16th floor of the tallest building on the island of Taipa is the glamorous indoor infinity pool of the impressively massive gaming complex of Altira Macau. It's easy to see why Forbes once named it one of the best hotel pools in the world: One side faces all of the city with crystal-clear floor-to-ceiling windows. Rooms from $235/night. www.altiramacau.com
Hot spots in the world's happiest countries
W Verbier, Switzerland
W's first ski property is in the heart of the Swiss Alps in the tony town of Verbier. The pool's interior vibe is totally in tune with W's urban aesthetic, with tons of black and leather furnishing that would be right at home at any fabulous pool party. From every corner of the pool, you can look out into the Alps, but if you want a closer vantage point, just swim out into the outdoor area -- the pool is heated -- and breathe in the Alpine air. Rooms from about $1,000/night, double occupancy. www.wverbier.com
Tambo del Inka, Peru
Tambo del Inka's wellness space's mostly wood, stone and glass construction perfectly marries the property to its natural surroundings in Peru's Sacred Valley. This synergy was the focus of the designers, who used a lot of the local shihuahuaco wood, which grows in the Peruvian rainforest. From the heated pool, you can get glorious views of the Andes, and like W Verbier's setup, you can swim under the partial wall to go from indoor to outdoor. From $455/night. www.libertador.com.pe/en/
Fairmont Le Château Montebello, Quebec
Built in 1930 for the exclusive private Seigniory Club (which counts international politicians and business tycoons as its members), Le Château Montebello's 75-foot-long pool has a real masculine feel, especially because of its log-architecture foundation. The coffered ceiling here adds visual depth to the overall rustic vibe with just a touch of whimsy: The handpainted wooden ceiling is treated to a motif of sea horses and scorpions. The pool has a diving tower, the surrounding area of which has water depth of 12 feet. Rooms from about $175/night. www.fairmont.com
The Charles Hotel, Munich
One of the largest pools in Munich, at The Charles Hotel, is also one of the most beautiful. The entire spa is outfitted with marble mosaic tiles, mostly in subdued colors punctuated with red flourishes. At the pool itself, a very pretty mosaic of red coral pays homage to 19th century Bavarian royalty, the Wittelsbach family, known for its collection of red coral paraphernalia, from dining cups to jewelry. Rooms from $375/night. www.roccofortehotels.com
Waldorf Astoria Chicago
The spa at this hotel is done mostly in a stark white, which only further emphasizes the gorgeous rose-design tile-work at the bottom of the pool, giving bathers the feel of swimming over a bed of roses. The 102,600 individually patterned tiles come from Bisazza, an Italian company renowned for its mosaic tile production. Rooms from $345/night. www.waldorfastoriachicagohotel.com
