(Real Simple)  -- Radio City Music Hall's Rockettes tell how to find the very best hosiery, from opaques to wintry woolens: a true stocking feat
Best Regular Black Tights
Wolford, $42 -- A bit costlier than others, it's true, but the luxurious material is featherlight while still providing dense coverage. What's more, said one dancer, "I tugged and tugged, and no runs."
Style: Satin Opaque 50.
To Buy: Wolford, 800-965-3673 for locations.
Best Regular Color Tights
Berkshire Legwear, $9 -- Offered in a range of rich, vibrant shades that are surprisingly wearable and flattering, these tights are a fuss-free way to punch up a neutral dress. One tester said they gave her legs that "smooth, after-you-shave feeling."  Real Simple: DYI wardrobe fixes
Style: 3670 Lola in Opaque.
To Buy: www.essentialapparel.com.
Best Regular Patterned Tights
DKNY, $18 -- A pattern on legs can be tricky to pull off, but these argyles manage to look both sophisticated and fun. Plus, "they really held up to my abuse," noted a Rockette.
Style: 0A830 Argyle Panel.
To Buy: Nordstrom, 888-282-6060.
Best Control Top Black Tights
Berkshire Legwear, $8 -- The subtle, dressy shimmer makes legs look shapely and long, while a dose of spandex works to "keep the jiggle away," said a tester. Real Simple: Best boots
Style: 4643 Shimmers Opaque.
To Buy: www.essentialapparel.com.
Best Control Top Color Tights
Hue, $11 -- This slimming pair offers a comfortable fit -- no binding waistband here -- in a rainbow palette. "The color stayed opaque even when stretched out," noted a dancer.
Style: 6620 Opaque Control Top.
To Buy: www.hue.com.
Best Control Top Patterned Tights
Spanx, $28 -- The secret weapon behind dozens of slinky Oscar dresses trims the midsection, the thighs, and the rear, causing one Rockette to declare, "I feel a size smaller." A unique diamond print showcases legs.
Style: Tight-End Diamond Pattern.
To Buy: www.bloomingdales.com.
Best Sweater Black Tights
Donna Karan, $30 -- A dancer singled out the "nice elasticity" of these unexpectedly thin but warm wool tights, which resisted bagging and buckling.
Style: 0A851 Tarnished Wool.
To Buy: Nordstrom, 888-282-6060.
Best Sweater Color Tights
Hue, $18 -- Made of a soft cotton blend, this hose isn't "scratchy at all," unlike many other knits. An earthy brown heather makes them a natural match for nubby tweeds and wools. Real Simple: Bras for every figure
Style: 3063 Marled Sweater.
To Buy: Nordstrom, 888-282-6060.
Best Sweater Patterned Tights
Via Spiga, $24 -- The cozy cable-knit texture has an old-fashioned feel, while the cotton-blend tights' gray shade will complement a variety of outfits. "I can't wait to wear these in chilly weather," a tester said.
Style: Cable Sweater Knit.
To Buy: Bloomingdale's, 866-593-2540 for locations.
Best Black Leggings
Capezio, $24 -- Not surprisingly, the Rockettes are fans of this dance-world staple. The leggings feel like "a second skin," one tester said, and they kept their shape impeccably, even after a rigorous dance routine.
Style: 9479 Lowrise Ankle Legging.
To Buy: www.capeziodance.com.
Best Color Leggings
American Apparel, $26 -- These "comfy, easy-to-wear" leggings come in 27 neutral, bright, and jewel tones -- including forest, asphalt, eggplant, and raspberry -- plus three cute polka-dot prints.
Style: 8328 Cotton Spandex Jersey Legging.
To Buy: www.americanapparel.net. E-mail to a friend
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of Real Simple - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2009 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
