(CNN Student News) -- November 15, 2013
How did President Obama respond to one of the controversies surrounding Obamacare, and how did critics react to his plan? Find out in Friday's program. Plus, hear how some people are turning to social media for help finding loved ones after a natural disaster. And see how part of a Civil War-era ship went from scuttle to surface.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Can watching an on-camera broadcast of a court case affect how the public perceives the case? How would this contrast to reading about the case online or in a newspaper?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. The date of Veterans Day, November 11, marks the armistice that ended what war?
2. What country's president declared a state of "national calamity" after his nation was struck by Typhoon Haiyan?
3. Workers have begun removing the scaffolding from what U.S. landmark, two years after it was damaged by an earthquake?
4. During the U.S. Civil War, the ironclad ship CSS Georgia was scuttled in what river?
5. International representatives recently failed to reach a deal involving what Middle Eastern country's nuclear program?
6. What's the name of the U.S. health care law at the center of controversies over its website and enrollment?
7. What building, measuring 1,776 feet at the top of its spire, was recently named the tallest in the U.S.?
8. What disease, which impacts more than 25 million Americans, involves the body's inability to control blood sugar?
9. Working with what animals is at the center of a legal dispute between Sea World and OSHA?
10. Who was determined by a recent survey to be the "most talked about person on the Internet"?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Philippines
North America
Savannah, Georgia
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
