(CNN Student News) -- September 3, 2013
As a new week begins, CNN Student News reports on the U.S. approach to Syria, radiation levels in Japan, and the discovery of a canyon under the ice in Greenland. We also discuss the power of perseverance as Diana Nyad completes a quest she began 35 years ago. And we consider a change happening in some U.S. school cafeterias.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why is it important to hear multiple perspectives in a news story?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. congressional authorization
2. ice sheet
3. calorie limits
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is sometimes measured in millisieverts?
2. In which places did Diana Nyad start and end her recent, long-distance swim?
3. What technology did scientists use to search below the ice in Greenland?
Discussion Questions:
1. What might be some of the different arguments for and against U.S. military action in Syria? Do you think Congress will approve President Obama's request for the use of military force against Syria? Why or why not? If you were in Congress, what factors would you consider before voting on this issue?
2. In your view, is the finding of a canyon in Greenland significant? Why or why not? Where else on Earth do you think scientists might find previously unknown geographic features?
3. What do you think might be some of the challenges of providing a school lunch that is affordable, healthy and enjoyable? What foods can you think of that might fit these criteria?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
Japan
North America
Greenland
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
