An Indian court has ruled that the organizer of the scandal-plagued 2010 Commonwealth Games in New Delhi is forbidden from attending the opening ceremony of the London Olympics.
The presence at the ceremony of Suresh Kalmadi, who was arrested last year on corruption charges related to the Commonwealth Games, would be "contrary to national interest," the High Court of Delhi said Wednesday.
The legal action seeking to restrict Kalmadi's movements was filed after a different court had authorized him to travel to London. He had sought permission for the trip in order to attend meetings of the International Association of Athletics Federations.
The Delhi high court allowed him to go ahead with his visit. But it said he couldn't leave India until Friday, the day of the opening ceremony, and should honor a pledge not to attend any Olympic events "in any official capacity."
Kalmadi still holds a number of high-profile sports administrative roles, including the presidency of the Indian Olympic Association.
In a statement, he said he was "never planning to attend" the opening ceremony and had never sought permission to do so.
The petitioner who brought the litigation, Rahul Mehra, said Kalmadi's presence at the Olympics would be "extremely embarrassing" for the athletes and India. Mehra described himself as a "patriotic citizen of the country."
The Indian government also is not in favor of Kalmadi attending the Olympics while he still faces corruption charges, according to the text of the high court's judgment.
The 2010 Commonwealth Games, which India had hoped would burnish its image as a rising economic power, was marred by accusations of graft, missed construction deadlines and cost overruns.
An Indian court granted bail to Kalmadi in January after he had spent nine months in jail following his arrest. The police detained him over allegations that as the head of the games' organizing committee, he bought a time, scoring and result system from a Swiss company at an inflated price.
Kalmadi is also a lawmaker in the Indian parliament, where he represents the governing Congress party.
Corruption has plagued India for years. A series of high-profile scandals rocked Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's administration in its second term, as well as investor confidence in Asia's third-largest economy.
Sumnima Udas reported from New Delhi; Jethro Mullen reported from Hong Kong.
