You were more likely to be struck by lightning or attacked by a shark -- maybe even at the same time -- than win Wednesday night's Powerball drawing.
But then again, you're not Mystery Ticket Holder in Lexington, South Carolina.
Millions played, hoping against hope, defying the odds, dreaming the dream of winning the $399.4 million jackpot.
But there was only one winning ticket that hit the jackpot.
Powerball trio strikes it rich with $448 million jackpot
One that spit in the face of the formidable 1-in-175,223,510 odds.
One that drew the winning numbers: 7, 10, 22, 32, 35 and Powerball 19.
And it belongs to Mystery Ticket Holder in Lexington, South Carolina.
No one has yet come forward to claim the prize, said the director of the South Carolina Lottery, Paula Harper Bethea, on Thursday morning.
We may never know the name or names of the winners. South Carolina lottery rules lets winners remain anonymous if they want.
Powerball jackpot winners in New Jersey claim prize
Bethea said the ticket was sold Wednesday afternoon at a Murphy gas station in that 5.8-square-mile town of 17,800.
The station will receive a cool $50,000 for selling the ticket. The winner or winners must claim the prize within 180 days, Bethea said.
Bethea told reporters outside the station Thursday that she encourages the winner or winners to sign the back of the ticket, put it in a secure location and seek counsel from an accountant, lawyer or financial planner.
"This is a life-changing event. There are a lot of zeroes that this person or these persons are going to get," she said.
Wednesday's haul was the fourth largest lottery price in U.S. history.
The biggest payload in American history was $665 million in the Mega Millions game in March 2012. The greatest Powerball jackpot was the $590.5 million won with a single ticket in Florida this past May.
But $400 million, with a cash value of $223 million, is still pretty sweet.
Someone's calling in sick this morning. That, you can bet on.
Why you keep playing the lottery
