Some Pennsylvania residents who live near a Chevron natural gas well that exploded, killing a worker, are getting compensation of sorts from the corporation.
Free pizza and sodas.
Chevron is dispensing 100 gift certificates for pizza and soft drinks to those in the area of Greene County where the February 11 explosion sparked a fire that burned for four days. An employee at Bobtown Pizza confirmed the corporation's order of gift certificates.
The cause of the explosion is still unknown, according to Jeff Rhodes, Greene County 911 Emergency Coordinator.
The blast killed a worker and injured another, and although the fire is out gas and heat are still being emitted into the atmosphere, Rhodes said.
Chevron's edible outreach is not sitting well with some recipients.
"Worst apology ever: Sorry our fracking well exploded. Here's a free pizza," one angry Twitter user wrote Tuesday.
"Nice community relations: if you are frightened by fire and explosion, relax, have a pizza!" another tweet stated.
One resident who said he wished to remain anonymous because of Chevron's strong presence in the area told CNN that he received a certificate on Sunday while he and his family were out. He said it was the first and last time they had heard from Chevron regarding the incident.
"It felt like a huge slap in the face," the resident told CNN.
"I do not feel that they've addressed anything. I haven't even called their hotline yet because I'm just too upset. A pizza coupon? I mean come on!"
In a statement to CNN, Chevron stated that the corporation "offered a token of appreciation" to neighbors who were affected by the events.
A letter also accompanied the gift certificates, according to CNN affiliate KDKA, with the letter stating, "Chevron recognizes the effect this has had on the community. We value being a responsible member of this community and will continue to strive to achieve incident-free operations. We are committed to taking action to safeguard our neighbors, our employees, our contractors and the environment."
"We appreciate the strong support we have received from nearby residents as we work to respond to this incident in a safe manner," the Chevron statement said.
The resident who spoke to CNN said he plans to move his family as a result of the incident.
"We're moving as soon as we can. That's not their only well near our house. It's just not safe,"  he said.
In an update published Tuesday on its website, Chevron said the situation at the well "remains serious and teams are working around the clock to safely approach and shut the well."
