(CNN Student News) -- September 23, 2013
CNN Student News begins the week in Kenya, as we report on a terrorist attack at a shopping mall in that nation's capital. We also examine the potential impact of a powerful typhoon bearing down on China, and we hear how some prominent Chicagoans are hoping sports can help curb violence in the city. Plus, we meet a fast food worker whose act of kindness earned an outpouring of praise.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might media coverage of an approaching storm affect how people in its path prepare? What positives and negatives might result from this coverage?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. terrorist attack
2. typhoon
3. "peace tournament"
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. In what African capital did a terrorist attack occur at a shopping mall?
2. What areas have been affected by Typhoon Usagi?
3. How did a Minnesota fast food worker react after a blind customer accidentally dropped $20?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion of mall security drills, such as those used at the Mall of America? In your view, what can be done to make public areas safer? What do you think people can do to try to ensure their own safety in public?
2. What kinds of conditions do you think might foster gang presence in an area? What impact might gangs have on a community? What do you think people could do to reduce the negative impacts of gangs in their communities? How effective do you think events like the "peace tournament" can be in a community?
3. Why do you think a woman at a Minnesota Dairy Queen allegedly pocketed some money that a blind customer dropped? What are your thoughts on the store manager's reaction? What would you have done if you had witnessed this?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
Nairobi, Kenya
Asia
China
North America
Chicago, Illinois
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
