Roger Federer is through to the final of the World Tennis Tournament in Rotterdam after a hard fought semifinal victory over Nikolay Davydenko on Saturday.
The world number three came from a set down to eventually prevail 4-6 6-3 6-4 to claim his 17th win over the Russian in 19 meetings.
"I've played him a lot, we are the same age," said the 30-year-old Federer, AFP reported.
"He was in the top four or five for years and we played a lot of big matches. I'm happy to live up to expectations, he's playing fantastic again but not enough to beat me. We had a great match," Federer added, AFP reported.
The 16-time grand slam champion will face Argentina's Juan Martin del Potro in Sunday's final.
Earlier, del Potro dispatched Tomas Berdych with ease 6-3 6-1 to book his place in Sunday's final.
15-love: Top tennis romances
The Argentine third seed ended the Czech player's eight-game unbeaten run to record his third straight win over the world number seven.
"I'm really happy to beat a top-10 player. I'm getting closer to my best level again," Del Potro said, AFP reported.
"But I still have a lot of work do to. I'm trying to work every day. Hopefully in the future I can fight again for number one," he added, AFP reported.
Del Potro will be looking to repeat his performance at the 2009 U.S. Open final where he beat the Swiss legend in a five-set thriller.
Meanwhile, second seed Andy Roddick crashed out of the SAP Open in San Jose on Friday losing to unseeded Denis Istomin from Uzbekistan in straight sets 6-2 6-4 in San Jose.
The former U.S. Open champion was his usual gracious self in defeat.
"He played better than I did in every aspect. He played well. I was hoping to be able to serve my way into it. That didn't work. From there, it was tough," Roddick said, ATPWorldTour.com reported.
The reward for Istomin is a match up against number five seed Julien Benneteau from France who defeated Belgian Steve Darcis in three sets 3-6 6-1 6-2.
Canada's Milos Raonic joins Istomin in the last four after a 7-5 7-6 win over number-six seed Kevin Anderson from South Africa.
The big-serving number-three seed fired 16 aces in all in a match lasting one hour and 42 minutes.
"Obviously, my job was to take care of my serve. That's the most important thing. If you fall behind, it's easy for him to close out the set. It's a straining match, but at the same time you just have to be patient," Raonic said, ATPWorldTour.com reported.
Ryan Harrison stands between Raonic and a place in the final after the American defeated Bulgarian qualifier Dimitar Kutrovsky 6-1 6-4.
