(RS.com) -- The members of OutKast will reportedly end their hiatus next year at Coachella, according to Billboard.
The magazine's sources claim the festival, which kicks off on April 11, would be the start of several reunion appearances that would run throughout the year.
Billboard's sources say there have been "some conversations" between Big Boi and Andre 3000, while another says it's "all systems go." Reps for OutKast did not immediately respond to Rolling Stone for comment.
See where Outkast's 'Stankonia' ranks on our list of the 500 greatest albums of all time
The duo has largely been inactive since the 2006 release of "Idlewild." Since then, Big Boi has put out two solo albums -- 2010's "Sir Lucious Left Foot: The Son of Chico Dusty" and 2012's "Vicious Lies and Dangerous Rumors" -- while Andre 3000 contributed to singles by other artists and recently portrayed Jimi Hendrix in the biopic "All Is By My Side."
Earlier this year, Andre 3000 and Big Boi appeared together on a remix of Frank Ocean's "Pink Matter," as well as a remix of T.I.'s "Sorry." But Andre was quick to dispel any inclination that it was an Outkast reunion.
The 10 best revelations from Big Boi's Reddit AMA
"I never want to mislead our audience -- I worried that some would think these were Outkast collaborations," he said. "These songs are not Outkast collaborations. I discussed this rationale with Big, Frank and T.I. and everyone agreed. That is why I was surprised to read about these remixes."
Around that same time, Big Boi tweeted with regard to Ocean's album, "Dre didn't want an Outkast Record Coming out on anybody else LP."
Andre 3000 on new music: 'Things are up in the air'
When Rolling Stone spoke with Andre late last year and asked him about an OutKast reunion, he skirted the issue. As for his own music, he said, "Things are kind of up in the air with me, and some days, I feel like yeah, I'll do it. Some days, I feel like, I don't. I don't know the future of music right now. I have no idea what I do. I honestly don't."
See the original story at RS.com.
Copyright © 2011 Rolling Stone.
