The parents of Sarah Jones, a crew member killed while filming musician Gregg Allman's biopic "Midnight Rider," filed a wrongful death lawsuit Wednesday.
Jones, a 27-year-old camera assistant, was killed by an oncoming train during production.
Among the defendants are the production company, the company that operates the train tracks, and various individuals, including the film's director, executive producers, location manager and director of photography.
The suit was filed in Chatham County, Georgia, which includes Savannah.
"Each of the Midnight Riders Defendants had knowledge, actual or constructive, that the scene filmed on February 20 was to take place on active railroad tracks, without permission from CSX, and each Midnight Rider Defendant knew of the danger presented by filming under those circumstances," the complaint reads.
"Despite this knowledge, and as set forth above, the Midnight Rider Defendants breached their duties to conduct the February 20 filming in a safe and legal manner, and each Midnight Rider Defendant is independently liable to Plaintiffs for Sarah's death and resulting damages."
Jones' death rocked the film community.
Crew members from various countries shared photo tributes, holding clapboards with messages of remembrance for Jones. Images were shared on a Facebook group Slates for Sarah.
Jones' primary job on set was to operate the slate at the beginning of each take. Jones, an Atlanta resident and member of the International Cinematographers Guild, used her "spunk and determination" to climb up in the industry, according to an obituary.
Her family is seeking an "amount to be determined by the enlightened conscience of the jury."
One of the defendants, Open Road Films -- a company the complaint alleges was to serve as distributor for "Midnight Rider" -- said it was not involved in the production "in any way at any time, and we have been named in this suit without justification."
"This event was a horrible tragedy, and our deepest condolences go out to the Jones family, the crew members and others who have suffered," it said.
Attempts to contact other defendants' attorneys were unsuccessful Wednesday.
