Farrah Fawcett, the actress known worldwide for her beauty and her role on "Charlie's Angels," is reportedly seriously ill and may be close to death after a long battle with cancer.
Farrah Fawcett, seen here in 2004, is featured in a documentary about her fight with cancer.
A documentary, which airs Friday night on NBC, will feature an intimate look at her life since being diagnosed with the disease.
On Thursday, Larry King talked with Candy Spelling, a close friend of Fawcett. Her husband, the late Aaron Spelling, produced "Charlie's Angels." Spelling talks about her relationship with Fawcett and why she believes she did the documentary.
The following is an edited version of the interview.
Larry King: Did you first meet Farrah in connection with getting that part?
Candy Spelling: Yes. Actually, she did a lot of small, little parts in the movies for Aaron starting around 1973. So it's been, my God, 36, 37 years since I, you know, first met her.  Watch Candy Spelling talk about her friendship with Farrah Fawcett »
King: So you knew her well during all that time?
Spelling: Yes.
King: Did you know about her getting picked to be on "Charlie's Angels?"
Spelling: I remember. She did some small roles. I think the one that Aaron really decided he was really going to use her was this American beauty pageant and, also, it was like "Murder on Flight 502." He did the 90-minute versions.
King: Movie of the week?
Spelling: Right. Movie of the weeks.
King: When did you know she had cancer?
Spelling: I found out about a year -- when I first heard, I don't know if it was a year or two years ago when we first heard, and I contacted her. I hadn't talked to her in a while. She said, "I'm going to be all right, Candy. Everything is going to be all right."
King: Why do you think, Candy, she did the documentary?
Spelling: I think that she wanted to give other people courage that, you know, are fighting this kind of thing. I know how, you know, devastating the press, you know, was with Aaron when he had cancer. And it's just so difficult. And I mean, you know, it's hard to have a private life at that point.
King: Why do the tabloids get so tough on someone in such pain?
Spelling: It's news. It's kind of a sad thing. I'm always so sorry to see it. But, you know, people believe what they see, and a lot of times, we don't know how true it really is.
