South Korea's Lee Jung-Su confirmed his reputation as the top men's short-track speedskater at the 2010 Winter Olympics with his second gold medal on Saturday night, while American Apolo Anton Ohno snatched a place in the history books with a last-gasp bronze.
That thrilling 1,000-meter final capped an action-packed ninth day of the Vancouver Games, as Swiss ski-jumper Simon Ammann made history with his second gold medal and Americans Lindsey Vonn and Shani Davis missed out on double titles in skiing and speedskating.
The U.S. still ended the day with a table-topping six gold medals, having failed to add to their tally, with Norway on five and South Korea joining Germany, Canada and Switzerland on four.
Lee Jung-Su followed up his victory from the 1,500m event in an Olympic record time of one minute 23.747 seconds, with his compatriot Lee Ho-Suk winning silver in 1:23.801 to earn some consolation after being disqualified for causing a crash on the final lap of the longer race.
Ohno (1:24.128 ) denied hosts Canada a medal when he surged past world record-holder Charles Hamelin (1:24.329 ) on the final lap to become the most decorated American Winter Olympian with a record-breaking seventh medal.
The 27-year-old overhauled Bonnie Blair as his country's top medal winner, having won silver in the 1,500m.
Hamelin's brother Francois finished last in the five-man final.
Ski-jumping
Ammann became the first ski-jumper to win four individual gold medals at Winter Olympics when he leaped to victory in the large hill event at Whistler to follow up his normal hill title and match his feat at Salt Lake City in 2002.
It was also the first time any ski-jumper has won both events twice, and made him Switzerland's most-decorated athlete in any Olympics, winter or summer.
The 28-year-old, dubbed the "Harry Potter of ski-jumping" after his 2002 heroics due to his likeness to J.K. Rowling's boy wizard, smashed the Olympic record of 141 meters when he set a distance of 144m in his first round in the afternoon for a points total of 144.7.
He then cleared 138m in the final round for a tally of 283.6 as he headed off normal hill silver medallist Adam Malyz of Poland by 15.3 points.
Austria's Gregor Schlierenzauer picked up his second bronze medal to ensure the podium remained unchanged from last Saturday's event, finishing on 262.2 points.
Alpine skiing
Andrea Fischbacher denied downhill champion Lindsey Vonn a double in women's alpine skiing speed events when she claimed a surprise victory in the super-G.
The 24-year-old Fischbacher won Austria's second gold medal at the Vancouver Games after beating Vonn's time, with Slovenia's Tina Maze then pushing the American into the bronze position.
Vonn, who crashed out super-combined, had gone top in the event -- which features gates spaced further apart than the giant slalom and slalom disciplines -- with a time of one minute 20.88 seconds.
But Fischbacher trumped that in convincing style with a sizzling 1:20.14 and Maze then claimed her first Olympic medal with 1:20.63.
Fischbacher had previously won only one World Cup event, a super-G two years ago.
"I was just thinking if I make a really good run and do my best I can beat her [Vonn]," she told reporters. "Everything was perfect and I skied really fast. It was a dream."
Vonn, the super-G World Cup champion for the past two seasons, indicated that she had been guilty of not going full-tilt for the entire run.
"I really attacked. I skied all those difficult sections really well. After I got passed those sections I kind of eased off the gas pedal," she said.
Speedskating
The 27-year-old Davis, who became the first man to defend the 1,000-meter title on Wednesday, had to again settle for silver in the 1,500m event on Saturday as the U.S. team failed to add to a leading tally of six gold medals in 2010.
Dutchman Mark Tuitert, who was fifth in the shorter event, claimed a shock gold as he set the fastest time of 1:45.57 to earn his first individual medal of any kind since winning silver in the 1,500m at the 2004 and 2005 world championships.
Davis, the Turin 2006 runner-up, was 0.53 seconds adrift while Norway's long-distance specialist Havard Bokko took the bronze.
China's Zhou Yang claimed the women's 1,500-meter short-track gold medal after setting an Olympic record time in the final.
Zhou clocked 2:16.993 to comfortably head off South Koreans Lee Eun-Byul and Park Seung-Hi in second and third respectively.
Cross-country skiing
Marcus Hellner gave Sweden a second gold medal in the cross-country skiing program, and third overall, winning the men's 30-kilometer pursuit title to follow up compatriot Charlotte Kalla's triumph in the ladies' 10 km free event on Monday.
The 24-year-old's time of one hour 15 minutes 11.4 seconds put him just 2.1 seconds ahead of Germany's Tobias Angerer, who was also runner-up at the 2007 world championships.
Johan Olsson claimed a bronze for Sweden to add to his relay third-placing at the 2006 Turin Games, finishing 2.8 seconds behind Hellner.
Ice hockey
Switzerland defeated Norway 5-4 in overtime to move into third place in Group A of the men's ice hockey competition.
Romano Lemm scored nearly two-and-half-minutes into extra time to leave Norway bottom with three defeats from three despite a hat-trick on Saturday from Tore Vikingstad.
First-placed United States will take on second-placed Canada on Sunday to decide the group, with the winner receiving a bye into the quarterfinal stage.
In the women's competition, Switzerland crushed China 6-0 as Stefanie Marty scored four goals.
