(CNN Student News) -- March 17, 2014
A vote in Crimea has brought up more questions about the future of Ukraine. We'll cover preliminary results and responses from other countries. There's also a shift in focus and the search area concerning a missing Malaysia Airlines plane. And a symbol of hope stands in Japan, three years after a series of disasters struck the country.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might the outcome of an election be reported differently by different countries' news media?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. secession
2. tsunami
3. sandstone
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Where is Crimea? What did voters there decide yesterday? How have Russia, Ukraine, the European Union and the United States responded to this vote?
2. According to the video: What happened to two communication systems on board Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 while en route to Beijing? Why do authorities now believe those systems stopped working? What other strange maneuvers did the plane make? Why do authorities believe that these were deliberate actions?
3. What disasters struck Japan three years ago? What is a tsunami? What happened to the town of Rikuzentakata on Japan's northeast coast? What is the "Miracle Pine"? What was done when salt water threatened the life of this tree?
4. Why have over 100,000 people marched across frozen Lake Superior this winter? How do they describe what they see? What are the caves made of? What causes the ice formations?
5. What republic in Western Europe is celebrating its national holiday today? About how many Americans say they have Irish ancestry?
Discussion Questions:
1. What options do you think Russia, the U.S., and the European Union have concerning the Crimea vote? What consequences might each option have?
2. Why might an object remaining after a disaster become a symbol for survivors? Do you think that images of these kinds of objects are powerful? Explain.
3. Can you think of any other natural geologic features, like the ice caves shown in the video, that attract tourists? Explain. Have you ever visited any of these kinds of formations? If so, where did you go and what did you see? What did you learn from the experience?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
