The Stamford Bridge faithful gave their returning hero a rapturous reception before Jose Mourinho's Chelsea team made sure the "Special One" would be celebrating Sunday as they beat Hull 2-0 in their English Premier League opener.
Mourinho, returning for a second spell in charge at Roman Abramovich's Chelsea, said after the win that it was proof he had made the right decision.
"It was fantastic, something you don't forget. I know they (the fans) love me and that's the reason I'm back and could say 'yes' to Mr Abramovich," he told Sky Sports.
The Portuguese saw his team dominate from the start with first half goals from Oscar and veteran midfielder Frank Lampard sealing the three points.
Lampard could afford to see his sixth minute penalty saved by Hull goalkeeper Allan McGregor, who made amends for his clumsy foul on Fernando Torres.
Brazil's Oscar was played in by man of the match Kevin De Bruyne before beating McGregor for the 13th minute opener.
More might have followed in a fluent display by the Blues, but Lampard stepped up to double the advantage with a perfectly struck free kick.
Promoted Hull improved after the break to prevent a rout, introducing a number of their close season acquisitions, including record signing Tom Huddlestone from Tottenham Hotspur.
Mourinho, back after managing Inter Milan and Real Madrid, acknowledged his team had been unable to match their first half heroics although under no serious pressure.
"It was a brilliant first half, high intensity, great quality, great football.
"But it was no surprise that in the second half the intensity went down because our pre season was not easy, with a number of players involved in midweek internationals," he added.
Earlier, Huddlestone's old club made sure Crystal Palace's return to the EPL would also end in defeat.
Tottenham secured a 1-0 away win at Selhurst Park thanks to a second half penalty by their record signing Spain international Roberto Soldado.
They also fielded other new signings Paulinho and Nacer Chadli in midfield, but Real Madrid transfer target Gareth Bale was not included, still nursing a foot injury.
Champions Manchester United marked David Moyes' first match in charge Saturday with a 4-1 win at Swansea.
Last year's runners-up Manchester City, who also have a new manager in Manuel Pellegrini and open their campaign at home to Newcastle in the Monday night game.
