A parolee believed responsible for killing Colorado's prison chief racked up more than two dozen disciplinary charges behind bars, including threatening to kill a guard and make her "beg for her life," according to prison records released Thursday by the state Department of Corrections.
The documents paint a portrait of 28-year-old Evan Ebel as a volatile and, at times, dangerous inmate, who threatened guards, fought with other inmates and disobeyed orders.
The release of the records came the same day that a Colorado law enforcement official told CNN that Ebel left prison after serving the entirety of his sentence wearing tracking ankle monitor.
The official, who examined Ebel's prison file, spoke on condition of anonymity.
It is not immediately clear from the official's statement how long Ebel was supposed to wear the monitoring device or whether he was wearing it when authorities say he killed Colorado Department of Corrections director Tom Clements.
Clements was shot to death at his home outside Colorado Springs on March 19. Ebel was killed two days later in northern Texas in a gun battle with authorities that left a sheriff's deputy wounded.
Texas authorities: Bomb-making materials found in car
Prison records show that almost from the moment Ebel was locked up he proved to be a problem.
He was written up at least 28 times on disciplinary charges that resulted in additional days on his original seven-year sentence for robbery and menacing -- infractions that saw him serve more than five years in maximum administrative segregation.
Among his more serious offenses was on September 17, 2005, when he threatened to kill a female guard, saying he would "kill her if he saw her on the streets and that he would make her beg for her life," according to the records.
As punishment, he was put in lockdown for 59 days and stripped of visitor privileges.
Over a two-year period also beginning in 2005, he threatened to kill two other prison guards as well as an inmate.
Ebel's prison sentence was extended by four year after he attacked a correctional officer. He was released from prison on mandatory parole, meaning he served his entire sentence, in January.
Investigators have said they are looking into whether Ebel might have conspired with other inmates to kill Clements. The corrections chief earned widespread recognition not only for prison reforms but also for a crackdown on prison gangs, including the white supremacist 211 Crew, who once counted Ebel among their ranks.
On Thursday, a 22-year-old woman appeared in court to answer charges that she purchased the gun that Ebel used in the killing of Clement and pizza deliveryman Nathan Leon.
Gun links Colorado prison chief's killing to Texas shootout
Stevie Marie Vigil of Commerce City is accused of buying the gun from a weapons dealer and giving it to Ebel, who could not purchase his own gun because he was a convicted felon, according to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.
Vigil was charged with one count of unlawful purchase of a firearm. If convicted, she faces up to a maximum of 16 years in prison.
It is unclear how Vigil knew Ebel, and authorities have declined to detail how the two knew each other.
The gun was bought at High Plains Arms in Englewood, Colorado, the shop owner told CNN. Authorities said that the business apparently followed all Colorado laws in the sale.
Authorities have said the bullets that killed Clements came from a gun that was found with Ebel, who had handwritten directions to the prison chief's house in his car.
Investigators also found a pizza box and a pizza delivery uniform jacket that they believe links Ebel to the death of Leon, who worked as pizza delivery driver.
Authorities have speculated that Ebel may have killed Leon for his uniform -- to use it as a disguise in the killing of Clements, who was gunned down after he opened his front door.
In Texas, Ebel was driving a black Cadillac, a car which matches a description that witnesses in Clements neighborhood said they saw idling near Clements' home the night of his slaying. Authorities have told CNN that the Cadillac was legally purchased, and they are interviewing individuals who accompanied Ebel at the time of the purchase to learn more.
CNN's Jim Spellman reported from Centennial, Colorado, and Chelsea J. Carter reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Carma Hassan, Dana Ford and Holly Yan contributed to this report.
