There's "no risk of Ebola" for a Dallas deputy who was hospitalized with possible symptoms of the virus, a Texas health official said Wednesday.
The deputy, named by local media as Sgt. Michael Monnig, didn't have any direct contact with Thomas Eric Duncan, the man who died of Ebola in Dallas on Wednesday.
"We know he didn't have direct contact with the patient (Duncan) and he doesn't have a fever, and in a situation like that there is no risk of Ebola," said Chris Van Deusen, spokesman for the Texas Department of State Health Services.
The patient -- who was transported from Frisco, Texas -- had reported being in the Dallas apartment where Duncan had been staying and having "some contact" with Duncan's family members, Frisco Fire Chief Mark Piland told reporters.
Monnig was a first responder and had spent about 30 minutes in the apartment, his son told CNN affiliate KTVT. He woke up Wednesday, feeling sore and fatigued and with a stomachache.
"With the situation, what's happened, he just decided it would be better to be safe than sorry," Logan Monnig told KTVT.
The family does not expect that Monnig has Ebola, but still, his son said, "We're kind of scared and just want to make sure he's OK."
The patient was admitted to the emergency room at Texas Health Presbyterian Dallas "after reporting possible exposure to the Ebola virus," the hospital said.
"Right now, there are more questions than answers about this case," the hospital said. "Our professional staff of nurses and doctors is prepared to examine the patient, discuss any findings with appropriate agencies and officials."
Asked about the case by reporters, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr. Tom Frieden said the patient "does not have either definite contact with Ebola or definite symptoms of Ebola."
A spokeswoman for CareNow, which made the call to emergency dispatchers, said the medical center "was being very cautious" after the patient checked yes in response to a screening question.
In addition to Monnig, two other deputies from the department are feeling sick, Scott Guiselman, president of the Dallas Sheriff Fraternal Order of Police, told CNN's Erin Burnett.
But state and local officials said they weren't aware of any other cases of Ebola-like symptoms.
The new patient's case was the latest development as fears and concerns over Ebola spread worldwide. With multiple developments on numerous fronts, here's what you need to know to quickly get caught up on the latest:
WEST AFRICAN CASES
Grim tolls:
To date, the world's largest outbreak of Ebola has killed more than 3,400 people in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone -- the nations hardest hit. Since March, more than 7,400 people have contracted Ebola in those nations, according to the World Health Organization. A handful of cases have been reported in Nigeria and Senegal as well. The CDC says infections could reach 1.4 million in four months.
The United Nations said that one of its medical officials in Liberia had contracted Ebola and was being treated there. The international worker, who's not been named, is the second member of the U.N. mission in Liberia to be infected with the virus. The first died on September 25.
U.S. CASES
Thomas Eric Duncan, the first person diagnosed with Ebola in the United States, died Wednesday, according to Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, where he was being treated.
