The mantra in Washington during the current winter storm is "stay home," but some doctors and nurses really do need to get to hospitals to take care of the sick.
So, many of them rely on a group of hardy volunteer drivers for transport.
Adrian Stanton was running Virginia Hospital Center's command center Wednesday morning, coordinating the driver pickups and drop-offs. He described the volunteer drivers as "unbelievable saviors for us."
One of those volunteers is Scott Long, who left his home at 6 a.m. to pick up two nurses before heading to the hospital, where he picked up another nurse to take her home. Long initially said he does it because he thinks it's the right thing to do. But he later admitted he also does it because it he enjoys it.
"My wife can stay with the kids. I get to play in the snow and nobody can yell at me for being out driving in the snow," he told CNN.
"I had a police officer the first day pull up at a stoplight and yell at me for being on the road. I told him I was driving for the hospital and he laughed and said, 'Well then, have fun.'"
Long drives a 1995 Jeep Wrangler for his pick-ups. He says he likes the Jeep better than his four-wheel drive.
"The reason is the short wheel base. I can actually turn around in a single lane in traffic, whereas if I had my bigger four-wheel drive, it doesn't turn around and it's not as nimble," he said.
As Long was making that point, his Jeep started sliding sideways along the road. But he didn't miss a beat as he regained control.
"Like where we just slid out there, the Jeep can handle it better than the truck," he said.
The volunteer drivers are offered a gas voucher from the hospital, but Stanton said most of them turn it down. Stanton has an active list of about 30 people who drive for the hospital during inclement weather. Wednesday morning he said the drivers had done somewhere near 50 pick-ups and drop-offs in the previous 24 hours.
The hospital workers appreciate the volunteer drivers.
"I didn't have any other options," said James Schmidt. He heard about the rides from e-mails and texts that the hospital sent to its employees.
One intensive-care nurse said she had driven herself to work the past few days. "I don't know how I made it," she said, adding, "God bless" the drivers.
One night-shift supervisor named Lynne said she received a ride from Long on Thursday morning. She lives only a few miles from the hospital, but didn't think she would be able to make it home in the snow.
Lynne said, "This is worse than ..."
Long finished her sentence: "... anything so far."
