(CNN Student News) -- October 10, 2013
CNN Student News goes global to start Thursday's show, covering stories from Egypt, Syria and Brazil. Then, we discuss President Obama's Federal Reserve chair nominee, who would be the first woman to lead the country's central bank if she's confirmed. Plus, we examine the possible ripple effects of the U.S. government hitting its debt ceiling.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might a reporter try to explain national economic concepts using household economics? What might be the benefits and drawbacks of making such a connection?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. unrest
2. demonstration
3. default
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. The U.S. suspended some of the military aid it gives to what North African nation, due to unrest there?
2. Who is the current head of the Federal Reserve Bank? Who has been nominated to replace him?
3. According to the report, what might be some of the consequences if the debt ceiling isn't raised and the U.S. defaults on its debt?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that Syria has cooperated with U.N. inspectors regarding that country's chemical weapons? What might be some of the challenges of verifying that a country's chemical weapons are destroyed?
2. What factors might turn a peaceful demonstration into a violent protest? In your view, does the nature of a protest (i.e. violent or nonviolent) affect how the public views an issue? If so, how? If not, why not?
3. What do you think might be some of the challenges of understanding the role of the Federal Reserve? What questions might the U.S. Senate ask President Obama's nominee for Federal Reserve chair? On what criteria might senators base their decision on whether to confirm her?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Africa
Egypt
South America
Brazil
Asia
Syria
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
