(CNN)  -- WBA champion David Haye has labeled Odlanier Solis a "fat bum" after the Cuban boxer suffered a humiliating one-round defeat to his heavyweight rival Vitali Klitschko.
The elder Klitschko brother was awarded a technical knockout after just three minutes of his WBC title defense on Saturday night, much to the disappointment of the 19,000-strong crowd ringside in Cologne.
Solis, the 2004 Olympic champion, was unbeaten in his last 17 professional fights, but appeared to injured himself after being floored by his 6ft 8in Ukrainian opponent -- who was defending his title for the sixth time in his second reign as WBC champion.
Britain's Haye -- who is preparing to face Wladimir Klitschko in a unification bout later this year -- lost to Solis in the amateur ranks 10 years ago and has launched a damning critique of his one-time conqueror.
Haye confirms showdown with Klitschko finally on
"Now that's why you shouldn't have excess body fat! A lean, 30-years-old healthy athlete shouldn't have joints/ligament popping for no reason," Haye wrote on his Twitter website page.
He continued: "He beat me 10 years ago when he weighed 46lbs less. He used to be ripped! Why become obese before a huge fight?
"Solis knew how to beat Vit, but years of obesity stopped him being able to execute. He will unfortunately go down as yet another fat bum."
After a promising opening two-and-a-half minutes of the much-anticipated encounter, Solis was caught by a right hook to his temple.
Like the crowd, the champion initially seemed angry that Solis could not carry on, but it quickly became clear he had hurt himself as he clutched onto his knee and hamstring while lying on the floor.
According to the AFP news agency, it is now believed the 30-year-old has sustained further damage to an already injured leg, and could potentially need surgery to repair the problem.
Solis' failed challenge has increased the pressure on Haye to defeat IBF and WBO heavyweight champion Wladimir Klitschko -- and perhaps even take on the 39-year-old Vitali before his retirement in October -- in order to put an end to the brothers' dominance in the sport.
As the build-up to the long-awaited showdown continues, Wladimir, present at his brother's fight in Germany, commented: "You can see why Haye chose to fight me and not my brother. He was incredible today.
"David is definitely going to say to Vitali, 'I will fight you down the road but Wladimir is next because he is weaker'."
