From the workshops of Rome to the catwalks of Paris, this month icon delves into the world of fashion. From the capital of couture, Myleene Klass goes back stage at Paris Fashion Week to find out what it takes to turn a clothing item into an icon.
Valentino
For almost half a century at the head of his eponymous label, Valentino dressed the most glamorous women in the world, from Jackie Kennedy to Julia Roberts. His name has become synonymous with elegance and his fashion house remains just one of just fifteen that are officially allowed to call themselves "haute couture." Valentino invited icon to his home, a 17th century French chateau outside Paris, to take a look at some of his greatest designs.
Anna Dello Russo
Paris Fashion Week -- a mecca for style watchers, trend surfers and the high priests of design. Between fashion shows, Myleene Klass goes to meet the fashion director of Japanese Vogue, Anna Dello Russo -- a self-confessed fashion addict who has 4,000 pairs of shoes to prove it. Her blog is visited by 25,000 users daily, who log on to see the latest outfits she is wearing. Myleene gets an exclusive look inside the closet of this modern-day style icon at her room in the Ritz.
Louboutin
Fish scales, spider webs and the columns of buildings -- for Christian Louboutin, inspiration comes from the most unlikely of sources. The high priest of the high heel has transformed footwear into fantasy and the wearers into wonder women who walk tall. Louboutin prefers not to divulge his client list but his shoes aren't so discreet. They speak volumes as they flash their iconic red soles on the feet of pop stars and princesses -- from the First Lady of France, Carla Bruni, to Lady Gaga and Madonna. The styles of his shoes have changed over his 20-year career but one thing has remained the same -- the heels are always high. Icon went to the master cobbler's atelier in Paris to discover the sources of his inspiration and to see how a pair of stilettos are made.
Watch the show at the times below:  Thursday 24 March: 1130, 1730 Saturday 26 March: 0630, 1500, 2230 Sunday 27 March: 0330, 0730, 1830 (All times GMT)
