A private memorial service is planned Saturday for British film director Tony Scott, who apparently committed suicide this week in California.
Scott, best known for the films "Top Gun" and "Beverly Hills Cop II," jumped from a bridge in San Pedro, authorities said.
His death led to reports that the British director suffered from inoperable brain cancer, but his family disputed that he was ailing.
Scott, 68, wrote two notes before his death, including a message left in his Los Angeles office for family members, a coroner official said.
A second note detailing contact information was found in his Toyota Prius parked nearby, but the notes did not provide a motive for why he took the suicidal plunge, authorities said.
The notes also did not mention any illnesses, diseases or other health issues, Deputy Chief Coroner Ed Winter said. He declined to provide additional details on what the notes entailed.
It will be weeks before the findings from an autopsy are made public, the coroner's office said.
"Our examination is complete, and we will be working towards a comprehensive document once we close the case," Winter said.
An ABC report Monday suggested the director was told by a doctor that he was dying of inoperable brain cancer. The network did not name the source of its information.
"I did talk to the family ... and according to his wife, he did not have brain cancer as reported, and (she) does not know who told ABC that information, which is absolutely false," Winter said.
Scott cemented his reputation for big-budget action films with 1990's "Revenge" starring Kevin Costner and "Days of Thunder" with Tom Cruise. In 1998, he directed "Enemy of the State" with actors Will Smith and Gene Hackman.
His reputation in Hollywood was low-key.
"He wasn't a showy kind of guy," longtime entertainment reporter Jeanne Wolf said.
While Scott's movies garnered box office success, they never received the acclaim that generated Academy Award nominations.
In 2002, Scott and his brother Ridley won an Emmy for the television movie "The Gathering Storm."
Scott also was nominated for the Emmy as a producer for the CBS drama "The Good Wife."
CNN's Kareen Wynter contributed to this report.
