The big winners at Sunday's MTV Europe Music Awards spanned the generations.
On one end, there was rock legend Ozzy Osbourne, who was honored with the global icon award. And on the other, there were the boy bands One Direction and 5 Seconds of Summer, who were crowned pop music princes by the end of the ceremony.
The 2014 MTV EMAs, MTV's 20th installment of the internationally focused music awards show, was held in Glasgow, Scotland and hosted by Nicki Minaj.
In addition to offering up multiple wardrobe changes throughout the night, Minaj also introduced a new song from her upcoming album, "The Pinkprint."
"Scotland, I'd like to take you on a journey tonight," Minaj promised before diving into a medley that included one of her past hits, "Super Bass," and the "Bed of Lies," which also features singer Skylar Grey.
Get More:
Nicki Minaj, EMA, Full Episodes
Minaj, who was a winner herself on Sunday as she picked up the best hip hop award, closed out the medley with her current smash, "Anaconda."
Ariana Grande, who's ditched her signature ponytail, gave a high-flying performance during Sunday's show. She went on to grab two awards, one of which was for her single "Problem."
Get More:
Ariana Grande, EMA, Full Episodes
Ed Sheeran, Alicia Keys, Charli XCX and Kiesza are a few of the other performers who also took the stage throughout the evening, but the 2014 EMAs had something special in store to end the night.
Slash teamed up with Myles Kennedy, Simon Neil and the Conspirators to close out the show with a tribute to Ozzy Osbourne that was immediately a must-see.
Earlier in the evening, Slash presented Ozzy with his global icon award.
Get More:
Slash featuring Myles Kennedy And the Conspirators, EMA, Full Episodes
"For four decades the Prince of Darkness has rocked anyone who dared to listen," Slash said. "This is a guy who does not know how to do ordinary. He scares the hell out of most people and all bats. But to me is a gentle man and a gentleman."
And what does Ozzy think of his new icon status? "I don't know where they got this icon s*** from," the rocker quipped. "But it's good to be here tonight. God bless you all, thank you for coming."
Here's the list of winners from the 2014 MTV EMAs:
Best Song
"Problem," Ariana Grande feat. Iggy Azalea
Best Pop
One Direction
Best Female
Ariana Grande
Best Male
Justin Bieber
Artist On The Rise
5 Seconds Of Summer
Best Live
One Direction
Best New Artist
5 Seconds Of Summer
Best Video
"Dark Horse," Katy Perry feat. Juicy J
Best Rock
Linkin Park
Best Alternative
Thirty Seconds To Mars
Best Hip Hop
Nicki Minaj
Best Electronic
Calvin Harris
Best Song With A Message
"Pretty Hurts," Beyonce
Biggest Fans
One Direction
Best Look
Katy Perry
Best PUSH
5 Seconds Of Summer
Best World Stage
Enrique Iglesias
Worldwide Act
Bibi Zhou
Global Icon
Ozzy Osbourne
