A dazed boy's musings after a trip to the dentist's office had a good run.
But even with foggy pronouncements like "I have two fingers," he was no match for Britain's talented Susan Boyle.
Boyle's surprising vocal performance on "Britain's Got Talent" was far and away the most-watched video of the year on YouTube -- racking up more than 120 million views, according to the site.
"David After Dentist," filmed by the boy's father as he was clearly still loopy from medication, was a distant second with about 37 million views.
This year is the first time YouTube has released a year-end list. On its blog, YouTube called 2009 "the biggest year yet" for online video.
"Some moments were big [President Obama's inauguration], some small [a Minnesota wedding party erupts into dance], some expected ["New Moon"], some surprising [Susan Boyle] -- but all of them inspired, entertained and connected millions of people around the world via YouTube," read the blog.
Titled "JK Wedding Entrance Dance," the video of a wedding party's choreographed entrance to the tune of Chris Brown's, "Forever," finished third with about 33 million views while the trailer for the hotly anticipated movie "Twilight: New Moon" was fourth with 31 million.
An advertisement for Evian bottled water that featured babies roller-skating to Sugar Hill Gang's "Rapper's Delight" was fifth with about 27 million views.
Boyle, a 47-year-old, unemployed, Scottish charity worker, leapt to international stardom after first taking the stage on the British reality show. Audience members and judges seemed to smirk at her frumpy appearance before she rendered a show-stopping version of "I Dreamed a Dream" from the musical "Les Miserables."
Boyle would go on to finish second on the contest but her album, released late last month, instantly went gold with more than 701,000 sales in its first week in the United States.
YouTube also announced its top search terms for each month of the year -- a list that serves as an instant reminder of the top pop culture moments of 2009.
In the United States, the year started with "Obama inauguration" as the fastest rising search term in January and ended with "Tiger Woods" as the most popular term of December.
