(CNN Student News) -- April 21, 2014
Monday's show is global in scope; it includes reports on Easter celebrations around the world, strikes on suspected terrorists in Yemen, and an avalanche on the world's tallest mountain. We also explore what it's like to preserve part of Boston's history, and we show you how a college student is making every penny count toward tuition.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What information would you include in a news report about trends in college costs? Where would you get this information?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Christianity
2. Mount Everest
3. tuition
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is the world's largest religion? What holy day was celebrated by Christians around the world on Sunday? What is the largest denomination of Christians? Who is its leader and what was included in his Easter message?
2. What happened on Mount Everest last Friday? Who are Sherpas? Why do they do what they do? Why do some people want to make this climb? What challenges do climbers face?
3. What happened at the Boston Marathon one year ago? How did the site of this tragedy become a memorial? What are some of the items that were left there? What is the job of the Boston City Archives? How is its latest task different from other history it has helped to record?
4. What is tuition? What did student Andrew Magbee use to make his final tuition payment? How did he earn this money? To whom was he trying to make a point? What point was he trying to make?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that climbing Mount Everest symbolizes the ultimate achievement for some people? Why do you think that people try to make the climb in spite of the risks? Do you have a personal "Mount Everest"? Explain. What challenges exist to reaching your goal? What support do you have to help you achieve that goal? What do you do to help yourself reach it?
2. Have you ever seen a place become a memorial after a tragedy occurred there? Explain. What kinds of items were left there? Why do you think that people chose to leave these items? How might a spontaneous memorial help families of victims as well as the community?
3. If you plan to go to college, do you ever think about how you will pay for your tuition and other expenses? What did you think of Andrew Magbee's story? Did it make an impression on you? Explain. What ideas do you have for paying your college costs?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
