(CNN)  -- Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice for Real Madrid as they won 3-1 in Marseille on Tuesday to top Group C of Champions League qualifying.
Real's victory meant AC Milan went through in second place in the group despite held 1-1 at FC Zurich, owing their draw to a second half penalty from Ronaldinho.
Former World Player of the Year Ronaldo scored in the fifth and 80th minutes in a comfortable win for the Spanish giants and showed he is back to his very best after an injury layoff.
The Portuguese star opened his account with a blistering 30 meter free kick, but Marseille midfielder Lucho Gonzalez leveled from close range six minutes later.
Real's Raul Albiol put them ahead on the hour mark before Lucho hit the crossbar from the penalty spot soon afterwards.
Ronaldo added his second in the 80th after a mistake by home goalkeeper Steve Mandanda left him with a conversion into an open goal.
Swiss side Zurich tested Milan and after dominating the first half went ahead in the 29th minute through a Milan Gajic free kick from outside the area.
Zurich had shocked Milan 1-0 in the San Siro in October, but were reduced to 10 men in the 64th minute when Marco Borriello was hacked down by defender Alain Rochat, who was sent off.
Brazilian ace Ronaldo converted the spot kick to grab a precious point for his side against the group's bottom side.
Chelsea had already clinched top spot in Group D but put on a lackluster display to be held 2-2 at Stamford Bridge by APOEL Nicosia.
Marcin Zewlakow's early opener for APOEL gave the Cyprus side a shock lead before Michael Essien and Didier Drogba put Chelsea ahead before half-time.
But Chelsea, who had gone into the game off the back of two defeats, were made to pay for a defensive error by John Obi Mikel as Nenad Mirosavljevic scored a late equalizer.
The other qualifiers Porto rounded off their campaign with a 3-0 win over third-placed Atletico Madrid.
Bruno Alves headed Porto into the lead after two minutes with Falcao scoring the second on 14 minutes.
Brazilian Hulk completed the victory with a fine third after 76 minutes after a mazy run and shot.
