A Pakistani man living in Virginia was sentenced Friday to 12 years in prison for providing material support to the terrorist group Lashkar-e-Tayyiba.
Jubair Ahmad pleaded guilty in December to making a propaganda video for the group, which included images and a prayer given by the group's leader, Hafiz Muhammad Saeed. The video also showed "scenes where atrocities have been inflicted on Muslims, followed by the activities of the mujahideen conducting attacks in Kashmir," according to the Justice Department.
Recently, the United States announced a $10 million reward for information leading to the arrest or conviction of Saeed, a Pakistani who is suspected of masterminding the 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai, India. which killed 166 people.
Ahmad admitted to communicating with someone in Pakistan named Talha Saeed -- Saeed's son -- who asked Ahmad to make the video. Ahmad said he asked Talha Saeed if he wanted to include an image from the Mumbai attacks, but he vetoed that idea. Ahmad uploaded his finished video onto a YouTube account in September 2010.
According to court documents, Ahmad, now 24, attended Lashkar-e-Tayyiba training camps as a teenager. In 2007, Ahmad got a visa and he and his family moved from Pakistan to the United States. He has been living in the United States legally, but has not become a citizen.
At sentencing, prosecutors said Ahmad conspired to recruit others and to raise money for Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, also know as LeT. The government said Ahmad "expressed his intention to return to Pakistan to complete the LeT commando training course and be launched on a martyrdom mission."
Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, which means army of the pure, is the military wing of Jamaat-ud-Dawa, a radical Muslim organization that aims to bring about Islamist rule in parts of India and Pakistan. The United States labeled Lashkar-e-Tayyiba a "foreign terrorist organization" in December 2001, and under pressure from Washington, Pakistan banned the group in 2002. However, it continues to function freely.
U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis ordered that once Ahmad completes his prison term, he will be turned over to immigration officials for removal proceedings.
"Mr. Ahmad directly supported the mission of a designated terrorist organization through his creation of online propaganda, fundraising and recruitment efforts," said FBI Assistant Director James McJunkin, who heads the Washington, D.C., field office. "He is now being held accountable for those actions."
