Commoner Kate Middleton, known as "Waity Katey" for her patience in waiting for Prince William to pop the question, has finally gotten her prince.
But besides his title, money and ability to fly a helicopter, what skills will he bring to the marriage?
Many women are a lot more practical. We want princes who have real skills and talents, and it may take more than one to satisfy all our needs.
I asked female friends and colleagues to name the celebrity who would be a "perfect prince" for the various tasks below. (The comments in parentheses are those of the nominators.)
And after checking out these choices, please add your favorite princes in comment section.
Keeping your castle in good shape:  • Mike Holmes of HGTV's "Holmes on Homes" • Ahmed Hassan OF DIY's "Yard Crashers" • John Gidding of HGTV's "Curb Appeal: The Block" • Courtland Bascon of HGTV's "Design Star"  • Matt Muenster of DIY's "Bath Crashers" • Ty Pennington of ABC's ""Extreme Makeover Home Edition" • Eric Stromer of HGTV "Over Your Head"
Cooking his way to your heart:  • Emeril Lagasse  • Jamie Oliver  • Bryan Caswell of "Iron Chef" (Hot!)  • Tyler Florence, celebrity chef and Food Network star  • Bobby Deen (son of Paula Deen)
Singing you to sleep:  • Josh Groban • Taylor Hanson (Hah, embarrassing, I know.)  • Harry Connick Jr. • John Mayer  • Brad Paisley or Darius Rucker (Country singers have the best lullabies.)
Picking out your wardrobe:  • Clinton Kelly of TLC's "What Not to Wear"  • Tim Gunn of Lifetime's "Project Runway"
Throwing the perfect party:  • Comedian and talk show host Conan O'Brien  • Gregg Gillis (a.k.a. Girl Talk)  • Nate Berkus, featured design expert for  "The Oprah Winfrey Show" • Musician Seal. Well, more like his wife, Heidi Klum. (Have you seen their Halloween bash photos?) • Actor, musician, comedian Jamie Foxx • Actor Gerard Butler
Balancing your budget and doing your taxes:  • HLN money expert Clark Howard  • Shia LaBeouf  (He did pretty well for himself in the movie "Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps," up until he lost all his money to his girlfriend's father.)  • Rep. Charlie Rangel, D-New York (A joke, since the House Ethics Committee voted for a censure of the congressman over ethics and tax issues.)  • Singer Willie Nelson (who has also had tax problems)
Perfect traveling companion:  • Bert Kreischer of the Travel Channel's "Bert the Conqueror" (He tackles all these extreme challenges, like the top roller coasters at Six Flags or redneck water-skiing.) • Anthony Bourdain of the Travel Channel's "No Reservations"    • Soccer star David Beckham   • European travel expert Rick Steves
Someone you want to take home to meet the parents:  • Michael Cera of "Arrested Development" • Cory Monteith of "Glee" • Ben Stiller of "Meet the Fockers" • Jake Gyllenhaal of "Love and Other Drugs" • Matt Damon
He could play your doctor on TV: • Patrick Dempsey -- "Dr. McDreamy" of "Grey's Anatomy" • Eric Dane -- "Dr. McSteamy" of "Grey's Anatomy" • Matthew Fox of "Lost" • Matt LeBlanc of "Friends" fame • Dr. Drew Pinsky  (The Love Doctor)  • Dr. Travis Stork of the TV show "The Doctors"
Solving any crime for you:  • David Boreanaz of Fox's "Bones"  • Jesse L. Martin of "Law & Order" • Peter Falk of "Columbo" • The adorable boys from USA Network's "Psych"  (Dulé Hill is my favorite.) • David Caruso of  CBS' "CSI: Miami"
Please add your princely picks below and tell us why you chose them.
