Roger Federer became the first tennis player to win the Qatar Open three times as he ended the reign of Nikolay Davydenko in Saturday's final.
The world no. 2 was beaten by his Russian opponent in last year's semifinals, but avenged that result with a 6-3 6-4 win as he claimed the 67th ATP Tour title of his illustrious career.
The Swiss star followed up his 2005 and 2006 triumphs to give himself a boost ahead of his Australian Open title defense in the opening grand slam of 2011 later this month.
"I have had a good week. I really appreciate the support I get here. I have had good preparation. I can't believe that I am on the board already this year," Federer told reporters.
What were the top tennis moments of 2010?
"This was a strong tournament and I'm looking forward to the rest of the season."
The 29-year-old lost only one service game en route to the final, and did not even face a break point against fourth seed Davydenko -- who ousted world No. 1 Rafael Nadal in Friday's semis in a repeat of the 2010 final, but has now lost to Federer 15 times in 17 meetings.
"He was tough, really played fast," Davydenko told the ATP Tour website. "He gave me no chance on the return, and also he was returning good. His first serve was very good."
Nadal has been suffering with illness, but he teamed up with fellow Spaniard Marc Lopez to win the doubles title, beating Italy's Daniele Bracciali and Andreas Seppi 6-3 7-6 (7-4) in Friday's final.
"It's a perfect feeling for me to win my third doubles title here in Doha after a not easy week for me," Nadal said. "Now I'm going to work hard to try to be ready for the next tournament."
In Australia, defending champion Andy Roddick will take on world No. 5 Robin Soderling in the final of the Brisbane International event on Sunday.
The American second seed beat South Africa's Kevin Anderson 6-2 4-6 6-2 on Saturday, while Swedish No. 1 Soderling ended Radek Stepanek's hopes of a third successive final appearance when he beat the Czech 6-3 7-5.
Young Czech Petra Kvitova won the women's title, with the 20-year-old beating fellow unseeded player Andrea Petkovic of Germany 6-1 6-3 in the final.
The United States won the Hopman Cup mixed teams event for the sixth time on Saturday, beating stand-in finalists Belgium 2-1 in Perth.
With top seeds Serbia withdrawing due to Ana Ivanovic's stomach injury, Bethanie Mattek-Sands and John Isner won the decisive doubles 6-3 6-4 against Justine Henin and Ruben Bemelmans.
Former world No. 1 Henin won the women's singles rubber 7-6 (8-6) 6-3, but big-serving Isner leveled the tie with a 6-3 6-4 victory.
Tomas Berdych's preparations for Melbourne suffered a blow when the Czech top seed was beaten in the semifinals of the Chennai Open in India, losing 6-4 6-1 to last year's runner-up Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland on Saturday.
Wawrinka, beaten by Marin Cilic in the 2010 final, will take on seventh seed Xavier Malisse after the Belgian beat Serbian No. 6 Janko Tipsarevic 3-6 6-3 6-2.
In New Zealand, Hungarian veteran Greta Arn won her second WTA Tour title by beating defending champion Yanina Wickmayer 6-3 6-3 in the final of the Auckland Classic on Saturday.
The 31-year-old followed up earlier victories over top seed Maria Sharapova, No. 4 Julia Gorges and No. 8 Sofia Arvidsson, saving five match-points in that second-round match.
Arn is expected to break into the top-75 for the first time next week, having last won a title in Estonia in 2007.
