December 10, 2013
The official start of winter is more than a week away, but severe winter weather is cutting a path of damage and disruption across the U.S. Get the details in Tuesday's show. We also report on unrest in Ukraine and the Central African Republic. Plus, we examine the effects of drowsy driving, and we put a tough tongue twister to the test.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How can a video effectively communicate safe driving practices to young people? What should this video include, and what should it leave out?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. wind chill
2. Central African Republic
3. tongue twister
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. When does winter officially begin? What impact did recent winter storms have around the U.S.?
2. What has led to violence in the Central African Republic recently? How is the international community getting involved in this conflict?
3. According to the report: What effects does being drowsy have on a driver's body? What impact do drowsy drivers have on America's roads each year?
Discussion Questions:
1. How might an early winter storm have a different impact than one that occurs later in the season? What do you think might be the challenges of playing professional sports in inclement weather? What are some reasons why some sports events are canceled due to weather, while others are not?
2. Why do you think that the toppling of a Vladimir Lenin statue in Ukraine is described as "a symbolic act of defiance"? What do you think that people who support the Ukrainian government might say about this act? Do you think that the video of this toppling could have an impact on the situation in Ukraine? If so, how? If not, why not?
3. Do news reports effectively raise awareness about the impact of drowsy drivers? If so, how? If not, do you think other actions should be taken to address this issue? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
EuropeUkraine
AfricaCentral African Republic
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
