Sao Paulo has confirmed it will complete the signing of Brazil playmaker Paulo Henrique Ganso from Santos in a deal worth an estimated $12 million.
The 22-year-old midfielder will put pen to paper on a five-year contract after the two clubs came to an agreement late on Thursday.
The Brazil international has made just 26 appearances this year after suffering from knee and muscles problems.
He missed seven months of the 2010 season after undergoing surgery on his left knee before returning to form.
Alongside Neymar, Ganso helped Santos win the Brazilian Cup in 2010 and the Copa Libertadores in 2011.
Sao Paulo football director Adalberto Baptista told the club website: "Ganso showed throughout the negotiating a great willingness towards Sao Paulo.
"He gave up big things and was firm in his desire. If it wasn't for his desire, we would had given up."
"It's a dream come true,'' Ganso was reported to have said by AP.
"Ever since Sao Paulo showed interest in signing me I wanted to get the deal done. I can't wait to get on the field and pay back for all the effort that the club directors put into this.''
Santos has also managed to negotiate a 5% sell-on fee into the deal after finally relenting in its stance of not selling Ganso to a rival.
Several European clubs including Inter Milan, Manchester United and Tottenham Hotspur had reportedly shown interest in the player but no bids were received.
The player made little secret of his desire to leave the club with fans launching protests after learning of his plans.
Santos' failure to award him the same wage package as Neymar is thought to be the chief reason for Ganso's decision.
The player will now hope to kick-start his career following a number of injury problems and a dip in form which cost him a place in Brazil's Olympic squad, where he was replaced by Chelsea playmaker Oscar.
And with the World Cup arriving in Brazil in 2014, Ganso will plan to show national coach Mano Menezes he is ready to lead his country's challenge on home soil.
.
