Prince William and his wife Catherine touched down in Prince Edward Island Sunday, winding down the fourth day of their Canadian tour.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had visited a center for troubled street youth and attended a "Freedom of the City" ceremony at Quebec City Hall earlier in the day.
They were met by cheering supporters at City Hall, where Prince William addressed the crowd in French. Nearby, a small but vocal group of anti-monarchy protesers gathered.
The royal couple also visited Maison Dauphine, which provides assistance to troubled street youth in Quebec. They posed for pictures and seemed at ease as artists showed off their work. Prince William played a quick game of foosball.
William and Catherine began their day with a bilingual morning prayer service aboard the HMCS Montreal, a naval ship, as the pair's first official foreign trip as a married couple continued. They are expected to visit four provinces during their nine-day tour, which ends Friday.
On Saturday evening, William and Catherine had arrived in Montreal to a small group of demonstrators -- carrying signs and chanting slogans -- who opposed the newlywed couple's tour and the British monarchy they represent.
Canada is part of the Commonwealth of Nations -- a loose association of nations that were once part of the British Empire.
Earlier Saturday, William and Catherine wrapped up their last day in Ottawa by planting a tree and meeting with Canadian war veterans. The royal couple joined a long list of illustrious international visitors when they ceremonially planted a Canadian hemlock on the grounds of Rideau Hall.
They then greeted veterans of conflicts and peacekeeping missions, including some who have served in Afghanistan, and representatives of the many British women who migrated to Canada to start a new life after World War II.
Later on Saturday, the pair traveled to French-speaking Quebec province, where they toured a flagship Montreal hospital dedicated to the care of mothers and children.
Canadian broadcaster CBC reports that Quebec's relationship with the monarchy has often been strained, with the Queen met by booing protesters on a visit to the province in 1964.
Prince William and the duchess had received a largely warm welcome since arriving in Ottawa Thursday. They had joined a crowd of almost 300,000 Canadians Friday to mark the celebration of Canada Day, on the 144th anniversary of the country's independence.
The couple's itinerary also includes stops in the Northwest Territories and Alberta.
After they wrap up their Canadian tour, the duke and duchess will head to California for three days.
