EDINBURGH, Scotland -- Hibernian have named former striker Mixu Paatelainen as their new manager in succession to John Collins -- who resigned last month in frustration at the lack of funds available to buy new players.
Paatelainen was a popular playing figure in the distinctive green of Hibernian.
The Finn, who enjoyed two playing spells with the Scottish Premier League club, joins from Finnish side TPS Turku.
The 40-year-old, who also played for Dundee United, Aberdeen, St Johnstone and St Mirren in Scotland -- as well as Bolton and Wolverhampton in England, confirmed he is relishing the challenge of his new job.
"I am very happy to take up this opportunity," Paatelainen said. "Everyone knows of my great affection for this club and I believe my desire to see teams play exciting, attacking and intelligent football fits well with the club's philosophy.
"I will bring energy, hard-work and leadership to the squad. I am also committed to working with players, as individuals and groups, to help them to improve.
"If I can help one player improve, the team is better. If I can help all players improve, we are much better."
Capped 70 times by Finland, Paatelainen helped Turku finish third in the Veikkausliiga last year. Compensation for his release has been agreed.
His two playing stints with Hibernian were from 1998-2001 and 2002-2003, either side of a spell with French side Strasbourg.
Paatelainen may know some of the Hibernian players who have come through the youth set-up, having been involved in coaching of the club's youngsters during his second playing spell.
Hibernian chairman Rod Petrie said: "We are delighted Mixu has agreed to take up the challenge and opportunity of managing Hibernian. We are convinced that he was the strongest candidate, and he impressed us a great deal during his interview.
"He has a clear vision of the type of football he wants to play, has strong ideas on man-management and demonstrates excellent leadership qualities. I am sure he will further enhance his growing reputation."   E-mail to a friend
