Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected president, who has been living in exile in South Africa for seven years, has been issued a new passport to return home, the Haitian interior minister said Wednesday.
Paul-Antoine Bien-Aime said the diplomatic passport was handed over to Aristide's U.S. attorney Ira Kurzban, who picked it up in Port-au-Prince Tuesday evening.
That removes a major obstacle that has prevented Aristide from making the journey back. However, Kurzban said last month that Aristide would still need the cooperation of South Africa and the United States to make the journey home.
Kurzban also said last month that Aristide had no intention of re-entering politics. But Washington has already signaled its displeasure.
"We do not doubt President Aristide's desire to help the people of Haiti. But today Haiti needs to focus on its future, not its past," State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said last month. "This is an important period for Haiti. What it needs is calm, not divisive actions that distract from the task of forming a new government."
The former Roman Catholic priest, who became a voice for Haiti's impoverished, remains a polarizing figure but commands a large following in his homeland.
Jacob Francois, coordinator for Aristide's Fanmi Lavalas party in the United States, predicted crowds would greet Aristide upon his return.
"It will be the greatest party of this decade," Francois said. "Once again the world will see that President Aristide is the most revered politician in the history of Haiti."
Aristide left Haiti on a U.S. jet in 2004 after a bloody revolt by street gangs and soldiers. The leftist former president says he was shuttled out by Western powers.
Aristide has long expressed his desire to go home. He reiterated that wish just days after former dictator Jean-Claude "Baby Doc" Duvalier returned to Haiti in January.
"Once again I express my readiness to leave today, tomorrow, at any time," Aristide said in a January statement. "The people of Haiti have never stopped calling for my return to Haiti."
His return would come at crucial time in Haiti's history.
The Caribbean nation's efforts to recover from a devastating 2010 earthquake has been compounded by a cholera epidemic and political chaos sparked by allegations of fraud in the presidential elections held in late November.
A runoff is scheduled in March and a winner will not be known until April.
