It doesn't happen very often that a marriage proposal is under police investigation.
Now, Las Vegas police are investigating whether their department may have gone too far helping a rock star fulfill his romantic wedding proposal to his girlfriend by giving them a ride in a helicopter.
Police confirmed to CNN that a fly-along took place last week, but didn't identify Daren Jay "DJ" Ashba and his now-fiancée as the passengers. Ashba, a guitarist for Guns N' Roses, posted a photo to Instagram this past weekend of himself and his girlfriend, Nathalia Henao, wearing headgear similar to what passengers would wear on a helicopter ride, telling followers: "That was the most incredible day of our life!! Special thx to the Las Vegas Police Dept. for the most amazing helicopter private tour over Vegas!"
Las Vegas Metro Police told CNN in a statement Tuesday that an internal affairs investigation is under way "into what we believe was an unauthorized and inappropriate fly along." Several department employees will be interviewed and "if the investigation determines that the fly-along was outside of policy the department members involved with face discipline," the statement said, adding the police department is also reviewing its fly-along policy.
Neither Ashba nor a rep for Guns N' Roses immediately responded to CNN's requests for comment Tuesday, and Ashba has since been mum on social media about the incident.
In the past year, Las Vegas has made the news over looming budget cuts that could affect public safety.
Las Vegas Metro Police warned in April that budget cuts could result in fewer police officers patrolling the streets, which prompted Clark County officials to propose a sales tax increase to pay for new officers.
Nevada State Legislature passed the bill in May and it was signed into law by Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval days later. Clark County commissioners voted August 6 to put off a decision for further study until "no date certain" in regards to raising the sales tax by 0.15% to pay for police officers.
County officials estimate the tax increase would generate an additional $56 million a year, with about $44 million going to the Las Vegas Metro Police Department.
What's with public marriage proposals?
