Roger Federer said Andy Murray can claim multiple Grand Slam titles after the eight ATP World Tour finalists were introduced to British Prime Minister David Cameron.
Ahead of the season-ending event in London, Mr Cameron invited Federer, Murray, world number one Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic, Andy Roddick, David Ferrer, Tomas Berdych and Robin Soderling to a reception at Downing Street.
The week-long tournament gets underway on Sunday when British number one Murray takes on Soderling in the opening match at the O2 Arena.
Top eight ready for London showdown
"It's fantastic that the ATP World Tour Finals tournament is back in London for the second year running. It's great for London and great for the country," Mr Cameron was quoted as saying by the ATP Tour website.
"I hope that seeing the world's top players compete right on our doorstep, including Britain's very own Andy Murray, will inspire our next generation of sporting heroes."
Murray, who has yet to win a Grand Slam title, said: "It's the second time I've been here. It was nice. He [David Cameron] likes tennis, which we knew beforehand. We spoke about tennis and some of the past players. It was good fun, I really enjoyed it."
But on the eve of the tournament, Federer, who has 16 Grand slam titles to his name, said Murray had the potential to dominate the sport if he can clinch his first major crown.
"If Murray wins a first grand slam title, that could possibly open the floodgates," Federer told British newspaper The Daily Telegraph. "And he could start dominating and winning slams, but I guess you just never know until he does it.
"It's important that you believe that you can do it, and Murray clearly has the game to do it, as otherwise he wouldn't have a winning record against me or so many titles already."
Murray will play Federer in the round robin stage and boasts a good record against his opponent, winning eight of their last 13 meetings.
But Federer rejected suggestions that Murray holds a psychological edge over him. "I never really thought about it from that perspective about having a psychological advantage," Federer said.
"He has very strong things on his side, and I have very strong things on my side, and that's why these days when we play each other it comes down to who has the better day.
"I don't feel as though necessarily he or I have an advantage over the other. I just think he's become a really good player."
