(CNN Student News) -- October 16, 2013
As we hit the mid-point of the week, CNN Student News reports on a diplomatic meeting to discuss Iran's nuclear program, and we cover the impact of a powerful earthquake in the Philippines. We also share the story of the newest Medal of Honor recipient. Plus, after a report about a restaurant where diners eat in silence, we ask students to consider whether they could make it through a mute meal.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What criteria might news producers use to determine whether to include combat video in a news broadcast? Is this kind of video necessary in a news broadcast? Explain.
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. economic sanctions
2. Medal of Honor
3. nonverbal communication
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is at the center of the international debate over Iran's nuclear program?
2. Describe the effects of an earthquake that struck the Philippines yesterday.
3. For what actions did U.S. Army Capt. William Swenson receive the Medal of Honor?
Discussion Questions:
1. How do you think that the international community can tell if economic sanctions on Iran are working or not? (What effects might these sanctions have?) How do you think the international community could verify whether a country is pursuing a nuclear weapons program?
2. How would you define "hero"? What heroic characteristics might a Medal of Honor recipient have? How do you think that U.S. officials determine who should be awarded a Medal of Honor?
3. Do you generally go out to eat for the food, for social reasons, or for a combination of the two? Would you want to eat at the restaurant featured in the report? Do you think you would enjoy a meal during which you and your family or friends weren't allowed to talk? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Europe
Geneva, Switzerland
Asia
Philippines; Afghanistan
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
