Wimbledon champion Serena Williams recovered from an awful start to beat Tsvetana Pironkova in the opening round at the Eastbourne grass-court event, her first match since victory at the All England Club last year.
The American lost the opening five games to her Bulgarian opponent, but gradually found her form to secure a 1-6 6-3 6-4 victory in just over two hours.
The 13-time grand slam champion, who has been off the court for nearly a year because of a long-standing foot injury, before developing a blood clot in her lungs, will now face top seed Vera Zvonareva in a repeat of last year's Wimbledon final.
Serena: 'I came back from death bed'
Williams told reporters: "It wasn't an easy match but more than anything, I wanted to win.
"She's an unbelievable player and beat Venus at Wimbledon last year. When I saw the draw I thought 'Oh my god.' I'm a little rusty but I enjoy being back on the grass."
Russian Zvonareva secured her place in the second round with a 6-3 6-3 victory over Briton Heather Watson.
Serena's win followed on from older sister Venus knocking out eighth seed Andrea Petkovic in her comeback match on Monday.
Fourth seed and former French Open champion Francesca Schiavone is also through after a 7-6 6-1 win over Kaia Kanepi of Estonia, while another former Roland Garros winner, Ana Ivanovic of Serbia, saw off up-and-coming German Julia Goerges 6-4 6-3.
Ivanovic told reporters that she is starting to find her form again after a dismal last couple of years.
"In the last few weeks I'm starting to gain more confidence again and there are things that I have to work on during matches," she added.
British number one Elena Baltacha, who is now up to 61st in the world, gave the home crowd some cheer with a 6-2 6-1 thumping of Frenchwoman Aravane Rezai, while holder Ekaterina Makarova of Russia struggled past Croatian qualifier Mirjana Lucic 6-1 3-6 6-4.
In the men's section, South African sixth seed Kevin Anderson defeated British qualifier Alexander Slabinsky 7-5 6-3, but fifth seed Sergiy Stakhovsky suffered a shock 6-3 6-2 defeat at the hands of former Wimbledon semifinalist Rainer Schuettler.
Later in the afternoon, Queen's Club runner-up and top seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga enjoyed a comfortable 6-2 7-5 victory over Denis Istomin of Uzbekistan.
Meanwhile, there was a major shock in the UNICEF Open in s'Hertogenbosch with top seed Kim Clijsters crashing out in the second round.
Clijsters, the reigning U.S. Open and Australian Open champion, was beaten 7-6 6-3 by Swiss-born Italian qualifier Romina Oprandi, ranked 82nd in the world.
Clijsters later told reporters she would undergo more tests on the right ankle that she hurt while dancing at a cousin's wedding earlier this year.
"I'm going to have some more tests and then I'll be able to give a more specific answer about the situation," said Clijsters.
"I feel like I was hitting the ball very well in practice. I was moving well. I wasn't really worried too much," she added.
Oprandi will next face Kimiko Date-Krumm after the Japanese veteran beat Lourdes Dominguez-Lino 7-6 6-0.
