A hearing for a soldier accused of killing Afghan civilians for amusement enters a second day Tuesday at Joint Base Lewis-McChord in Washington state.
Military officials will determine if there is enough evidence to court martial Pfc. Andrew Holmes over the allegedly premeditated deaths of three Afghan civilians.
Holmes is also charged with smoking hashish, possessing a dismembered human finger and wrongfully possessing photos of human casualties. He is accused of conspiring with Spc. Jeremy Morlock to shoot at a civilian and then toss a grenade so it would look like the soldiers were under attack.
On Monday, Spc. Ryan Mallett testified that he was on patrol with Holmes and Morlock in January when more than 20 soldiers were taking part in an operation to gather intelligence in an Afghan village.
He testified that Holmes and Morlock gestured to an Afghan farmer working in a field with about eight other farmers to come closer so they could question him. Mallett said he saw the soldiers have the man raise his shirt to prove he didn't have any weapons.
That's when Mallett heard Morlock yell, "He's got a grenade, Holmes, shoot him," Mallett testified.
"I saw him [Holmes] shoot. I couldn't tell if he hit him. There were little pockmarks on the wall. I saw the grenade go off," Mallett testified.
Mallett said Morlock and Holmes ducked behind a wall to avoid the grenade blast.
As he ran down to the scene, Mallett said he tripped and fell but got up and kept running. He said the Afghan farmer was dead.
Mallett said he recalled that as the soldiers checked their weapons, Holmes had shot eight to 10 rounds, and Morlock had shot two to three rounds.
Also on Monday, Benjamin Stevenson, special agent for the U.S. Army's Criminal Investigation Command, testified by phone from Afghanistan about visiting Bagram Air Base in May and finding human remains.
"When we reached the location, we climbed up on a barrier, and right where we were told the fingers would be -- that's where they were," Stevenson testified.
Stevenson said fingers were wrapped in cloth. He also described the discovery of two bones that appeared to be arm or leg bones.
Holmes is one of five U.S. soldiers from the 5th Stryker Brigade accused of killing civilians for sport and staging the deaths to look like legitimate war casualties.
In all, officials charged 12 U.S. soldiers in what they called a conspiracy to murder Afghan civilians and cover it up, along with charges they mutilated corpses and kept grisly souvenirs. Five of the soldiers face murder charges, while seven others are charged with participating in a coverup.
Morlock was the first of the five to face an Article 32 hearing, the military equivalent of a grand jury hearing, at Joint Base Lewis-McChord. Morlock is charged with three counts of murder. He is accused of killing Afghan civilian Gul Mudin in January with a grenade and rifle; killing civilian Mullah Adahdad in May in a similar manner; and shooting to death Marach Agha in February.
All of the accused men were members of a 2nd Infantry Division brigade operating near Kandahar in southern Afghanistan in 2009 and 2010.
The three others facing murder charges are Staff Sgt. Calvin Gibbs, of Billings, Montana; Adam Winfield, of Cape Coral, Florida; and Spc. Michael Wagnon, of Las Vegas, Nevada.
According to the military documents, the five were also involved in throwing grenades at civilians.
Authorities allege Gibbs kept finger bones, leg bones and a tooth from Afghan corpses. Wagnon allegedly kept a skull from a corpse, according to charging documents.
Several soldiers are charged with taking pictures of the corpses, and one soldier is charged with with stabbing a corpse.
Holmes' civilian lawyer, Dan Conway, has said his client did not kill any civilian and was ordered by his supervisor, Gibbs, to keep a human finger.
"There is no proof that ... Holmes caused or conspired to cause the death of any human being unlawfully," Conway said.
During a break in the hearing Monday, Conway told journalists, "The government, as they often do in some these of cases, casts a net entirely too wide."
Conway has said he plans to ask serious questions about the Army's command of a platoon that everyone agrees went terribly astray.
"The only way these kind of allegations can occur is the command is completely derelict in supervising, meaning not there, or they're ignoring that this kind of conduct may be occurring," Conway said. "And I don't know which one it is at this point."
The Army refuses to comment on any aspect of any of the cases and has sought to limit circulation of evidence, especially since videotaped interrogations of some of the soldiers and alleged written confessions by some soldiers were obtained and reported by media outlets, including CNN.
But it was the Army's own charging documents that portrayed a platoon gone rogue. In explicit detail, the Army wrote how killings were staged -- how a fellow soldier was beaten and how  Gibbs allegedly threw human fingers at another soldier believed to have snitched about the group's hashish smoking.
The Army moved to restrict attorney access to what has been described to CNN by some who have seen them as a series of gruesome photos of dead Afghans by allowing inspection of the material only at a secure facility at Lewis-McChord.
A number of attorneys have objected, telling CNN the Army is limiting their ability to defend their clients because it is more concerned how the charges are being played in the media and perceived in Afghanistan.
CNN's Patrick Oppmann, Barbara Starr, Drew Griffin, Kathleen Johnston, Todd Schwarzschild and Courtney Yager contributed to this report.
