After an unbeaten career and a Vogue cover, Australia's most celebrated horse now has a bronze statue in her honor.
The statue of Black Caviar, which retired with a perfect 25-0 career record, was unveiled in the animal's birthplace of Nagambie in the state of Victoria as it emerged the horse is set to deliver a living legacy of its own -- the super mare is in foal.
A crowd bedecked in Black Caviar's signature salmon pink and black polka dot silks turned out to catch a glimpse of the life-size tribute, which is the work of sculptor Mitch Mitchell.
And excitement among her throngs of fans grew as word spread that Australia's foremost equine superstar -- after two visits to stallion Exceed and Excel -- is expecting.
"We are all proud Australians we are all proud Victorian this is a great day for Australia," breeder Rick Jamieson told The Telegraph.
"As Nagambians we can say we bred the best horse in racing history."
The six-year-old sprinter, worth almost $8 million in prize money, bowed out after claiming her quarter century victory at Sydney's TJ Smith Stakes in April.
Duing a record-breaking career, the "Wonder from Down Under" transcended the sports pages to become one of the country's most beloved sporting celebrities.
The super mare wasn't just a powerhouse on the track -- she was a treasured personality who appeared on the cover of Vogue, launched a best-selling biography and was named Sportswoman of the Year by Sydney's Daily Telegraph.
The retirement of the world's top-rated racehorse led news bulletins in Australia, with former Australian p
Prime Minister Gillard tweeting: "We've never seen anything like Black Caviar before and may never again. She has an incredible legacy."
Since demolishing the field in her first major win at the Danehill Stakes in 2009, interest in Black Caviar has grown expotentially.
The wonder mare, who even has her own Twitter handle, has not just won all 25 of her races -- with the exception of Britain's Royal Ascot she has won them by staggering margins -- destroying world-class fields to become one of the world's top-rated race horses.
Her unblemished record is the second highest of all time, trailing behind only Hungarian horse Kincsem, which apparently took 54 races in the late 1800s.
