December 19, 2014
CNN Student News is wrapping up 2014 with a report on ten international stories that captured the world's attention. We update you on developments in the U.S. stock market and the influenza virus. And two of our favorite "Before We Go" videos conclude our show. Teachers, please note that our daily program will resume on January 5, 2015. Our staff at CNN Student News sincerely thanks you for another wonderful year!
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
2014 NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. Name one of the three countries that have been most affected by the worst outbreak of Ebola in recorded history.
2. In what body of water is the main search area for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which vanished on March 8?
3. What region of Ukraine was annexed by Russia in March, despite political opposition from the U.S. and other European countries?
4. In what central African nation were hundreds of schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram terrorists?
5. In October, teenage education activist Malala Yousafzai became the youngest person ever to win what prestigious award?
6. What terrorist group rapidly rose to power this year, taking over a third of Iraq and Syria, before outside countries got involved in fighting it?
7. Water levels in what U.S. state continued to drop this year, as a historic drought worsened?
8. Name the Russian city on the coast of the Black Sea that hosted the 2014 Winter Olympics.
9. The U.S. Midterm Elections changed political control of what chamber of Congress?
10. In what U.S. city did the National September 11 Memorial Museum open to the general public on May 21?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
