The White House is planning a "very aggressive sales job" that will involve the Vice President, cabinet members and travel across the nation for President Barack Obama's executive action on immigration, a top White House aide said Friday.
Speaking at a breakfast hosted by the Christian Science Monitor, White House senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer told reporters that after Friday's address on the topic in Las Vegas, Obama will head to Chicago next Tuesday to speak with activists. The sales pitch, which Pfeiffer called a "very important priority," will continue beyond December, with travel across the nation.
"[The President will] first make the case to the country about what we did, why we did it, explain to the country why it's consistent with past presidents of both parties," Pfeiffer said, adding a key component will also be educating the nearly 5 million undocumented immigrants the move could help on how to apply to the program.
Obama announced a widely controversial plan to delay deportations for millions of immigrants here illegally during a primetime address Thursday night, and was immediately met with fierce Republican opposition. House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) pledged during a Friday morning press conference that the House will "rise to this challenge" and respond to the order, which he said "damaged" the presidency.
Some Republicans have floated attaching a policy rider to the upcoming must-pass government spending bill that would defund implementation of the executive order, which President Obama would then veto, effectively leading to another shutdown.
Pfeiffer invoked incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's (R-Ky.) warning against shutting down the government in arguing the GOP shouldn't choose that route of response.
"Certainly, our hope is that Republicans will listen to Senator McConnell, who has said two things: one is that Republicans have to demonstrate to the American people that they can govern, and two, there'll be no shutdowns or threats or things [like impeachment]," Pfeiffer said.
Republicans have warned for weeks that the move would "poison the well" with the GOP and kill any possibility for compromise with the White House. Pfeiffer said the President hopes Republicans won't use the executive action as an excuse not to work with them on other issues.
"It's sort of the 3rd grade equivalent of taking your ball and going home," he said.
Pfeiffer defended the choice to move on key issues unilaterally, arguing that, for the President, even "getting out of bed in the morning comes with Republican opposition."
"[If] you can only do things that are not going to make some Republicans very mad, then we would do nothing," he said.
And he hinted that more may be to come. Pfeiffer said the President gathered his aides the day after the party suffered deeply damaging losses during the midterm elections, losing control of the Senate and a handful of moderates in the House, to remind them that time is running out in his presidency and they'll never have a better opportunity to "do good" in the world.
"He does feel the pressure of time, we all do. We have a little bit over two years left here," said, and the president wants to "maximize" his efforts to get things done in the remaining time.
"We're gonna be looking for opportunities to work with Republicans, but we've also made it clear that where we have authority to act, and where we can do what we can to move the ball forward, we're going to do that," Pfeiffer said.
