(EW.com ) -- Bravo had a good year in 2013 — so good that the network is adding an ambitious 15 new original shows to its programming.
Famous for hits like the "Real Housewives" series, Bravo earned the No. 1 spot in 2013 for the most engaged, educated, and affluent viewers for the 18-49 age group in prime time, and it's now averaging 1.1 million total viewers.
"Our strategy of creating a total multi-platform lifestyle experience for our Affluencers is paying off with not just viewership growth across the board, but also loyalty, which is at an all-time high for Bravo," Bravo president Frances Berwick said in a statement. "This diversified new lineup, which includes two scripted series and our first 'real-time' docu-series, will satisfy fans and also bring in new affluent viewers."
See what new shows Bravo has in store below, along with what series will be returning:
New scripted series:
"Odd Mom Left Out" -- Jill Kargmen struggles to keep up with the wealthy, hip moms of the Upper East Side in this half-hour comedy.
"Girlfriend's Guide to Divorce" -- A self-help book author needs some help herself after she secretly separates from her husband and finds herself single in her 40s living in Los Angeles.
New unscripted series:
"Top Chef Duels" -- The 18 most memorable contestants from previous Top Chef seasons return to the kitchen to compete with each other one-on-one as celebrity chef Curtis Stone hosts.
"Best New Restaurant" -- Tom Colicchio and company pick sixteen of the country's best new restaurants to battle, leaving one with a cash prize and the title of "Best New Restaurant."
"100 Dates" -- A group of young New Yorkers try to find love in the city in this docu-drama, with each week's episode being shot and airing in the same week to allow viewers to participate in the action in real-time via social media.
"Friends to Lovers?" -- Think Friends with Benefits (or, equally applicable, No Strings Attached) but a reality show: Platonic friends try dating to see what happens to their relationships.
"Manzo'd with Children" -- Real Housewife of New Jersey Caroline Manzo shows the world her less-than-typical Italian family.
"Euros of Hollywood" -- Six Europeans hailing from places from Albania to Italy seek to take on America when they move to Los Angeles to find out how close to the top they can get.
"Ladies of London" -- This docu-series will follow the lives of a group of prim-and-proper British socialites and their day-to-day dramas.
"Game of Crowns -- Six mothers and wives compete in a "Mrs." pageant and juggle finding the right bikini and raising their kids right.
"Million Dollar Listing Miami" -- Three luxury real estate agents fight for the biggest listings and for the most prestige in the up-and-coming real estate market of South Florida.
"Jersey Belle" -- Jamie Primak Sullivan was a Hollywood publicist — until she moved to a suburb in Alabama and married her town's hottest bachelor. The docu-series will follow her new life in the south as we watch her balance her city girl roots with her southern home.
"Untying the Knot" -- "Divorce Diva" Vikki Ziegler helps couples divide their assets when they're going through divorces, and in this show we'll get to see how Ziegler deals with one of the messier parts of divorce.
"Extreme Guide to Parenting" -- The proper way to parent is a hotly debated topic, and this docu-series will tackle it head-on as it gives us a look at two sets of parents who have very different ways of raising their kids.
"The Real Housewives of Atlanta: Kandi's Wedding" -- Kandi Burruss and Todd Tucker are getting married, and this series will document their planning process — including how they're going to pull of a Coming to America-themed ceremony.
Unscripted projects in development
"Going Going Gone -- Viewers can call in to bid on unique items, ranging from a dress modeled by Naomi Campbell to one of Wolfgang Puck's old knives, in a live televised estate sale.
"Tour Group" -- In this luxury travel docu-series, a group of wealthy travelers get together to wander the globe and visit the world's most scenic sights.
"Gen XYZ" -- Can women have it all? That's the question this reality series asks as it follows six successful women navigating the balance between their careers in fashion and beauty industries and their personal lives.
Returning shows
"Below Deck" (season 2)
"Don't Be Tardy" (season 3)
"Million Dollar Listing Los Angeles" (season 7)
"The Real Housewives of New Jersey" (season 6)
"Top Chef" (season 12)
"The Millionaire Matchmaker" (season 8)
"The Real Housewives of Atlanta" (season 7)
"The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills" (season 5)
"Shahs of Sunset" (season 4)
"Vanderpump Rules" (season 3)
"Fashion Queens" (season 3)
"Newlyweds" (season 2)
"Thicker Than Water" (season 2)
"Blood, Sweat, & Heels" (season 2)
See the original story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
