A solitary goal from Karim Benzema kept Real Madrid in touch with league leaders Barcelona on Sunday night as Jose Mourinho's side overcame Mallorca 1-0 at the Bernabeu.
The French striker's left-footed effort in the 61st minute ensured Madrid returned to winning ways after a disappointing draw against Almeria last weekend.
Mourinho casts doubt on Madrid future
Madrid squandered a host of chances to make the game completely safe and could have dropped further league points as Mallorca put up a spirited fight.
Emilio Nsue hit the post after 13 minutes and goalkeeper Iker Casillas saved smartly from Pierre Webo moments before the final whistle.
But the home side held on and the win means they remain four points behind Barcelona -- who won comfortably against Racing Santander on Saturday.
Barcelona extend La Liga lead
Villarreal came from a goal down to beat Real Sociedad 2-1 and reclaim third place in the table.
A brace by Giuseppe Rossi either side of halftime rescued the home side after they fell behind to a Mikel Aranburu goal in the 30th minute.
In La Liga's other matches, Almeria beat Osasuna 3-2 to lift themselves off the bottom of the table.
Argentine striker Jose Ulloa scored twice to earn the home side their first home league win of the season as they moved up to 18th.
Fellow strugglers Real Zaragoza also received a boost with a 1-0 win over Deportivo La Coruna. Said Boutahar's superb free kick seven minutes before halftime was enough to lift them out of the bottom three. Deportivo remain in 13th place.
At the other end of the table, Espanyol consolidated fifth place with a 3-1 win at Getafe.
The away side had to come from behind after Venezuelan striker Miku Flores put Getafe ahead in the 13th minute.
All three of Espanyol's goals came in a frantic 11-minute period after the break.
Luis Garcia put them on level terms in the 52nd minute. Seven minutes later Jose Callejon put them ahead and Sergio Garcia added a third in the 63rd minute to stun the home fans.
Atletico Madrid lost ground on the Champions League places as they slumped to a 1-0 defeat at Sporting Gijon -- David Barral's goal in the 51st minute proving enough to sink last year's Europa League champions.
