February 6, 2015
This Friday, we're starting with news from Jordan: Find out how the Middle Eastern country responded to the recent murder of one of its fighter pilots. We show you what it's like to walk through a Syrian city ruined by terrorism and war. And if you've ever considered texting while driving, you'll have to consider how new technology can help police catch offenders!
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ
Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF).
1. In 1926, an African-American historian launched the event that would become Black History Month. What was this historian's name?
2. Hezbollah, a group considered a terrorist organization by the U.S. and Israel, is based in what Middle Eastern nation?
3. Name the English king who was coerced by nobles to sign the Magna Carta in 1215.
4. Who is the new leader of Saudi Arabia, a Middle Eastern ally of the U.S. that's been criticized for its human rights record?
5. A recent "temperature inversion" temporarily filled what Arizona landmark with fog?
6. What is the name of President Obama's nominee for U.S. defense secretary, who was questioned at a hearing on Capitol Hill this week?
7. In what country were the 1998 Olympics, where snowboarding made its Olympic debut?
8. What country, a Middle Eastern constitutional monarchy, struck back at ISIS terrorists on Thursday in response to the murder of a captured fighter pilot?
9. In what nation is the ruined city of Kobani, where coalition airstrikes and Kurdish fighters have succeeded in pushing out ISIS terrorists?
10. The NBA team in Atlanta, Georgia has the best record in the league. What is this team's mascot?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.
ROLL CALL
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
