Argentina midfielder Javier Mascherano wants to leave Liverpool, according to the English club's new manager Roy Hodgson, but Spain striker Fernando Torres wants to stay.
Mascherano has been linked with a move to European champions Inter Milan, where his former Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez is now coach, and informed Hodgson of his desire to leave on his first day back at Anfield following a post-World Cup break.
The 26-year-old joined Liverpool in 2007 on loan from English rivals West Ham, and signed a permanent four-year contract in 2008.
"Yes, he wants to leave the club. He has made that perfectly clear," Hodgson told reporters at a press conference ahead of Thursday's Europa League qualifier against Macedonia's Rabotnicki.
"I think he wanted to leave a year ago and he wants to leave now. But he's contracted to Liverpool Football Club, so whether he leaves or not is our decision.
"The mere fact that the player is a little bit unhappy with his situation and would prefer to leave doesn't necessarily mean he will leave. It disappoints me, but it's not unusual.
"He has a two-year contract and I expect him to honor that until the day comes when the club decides to accept an offer for his services."
However, Hodgson had better news about the future of top scorer Torres, who has been linked with English double winners Chelsea after admitting to the former Fulham manager that he was unhappy with aspects of life at Liverpool.
"As far as I know, he is looking forward to coming back here on Monday," the 62-year-old said on Tuesday. "He is enjoying a holiday, which is a well-deserved break as I don't think he's had one for three years.
"He is spending a lot of time with his family and, as far as I know, is keeping a very low profile and not really speaking to anybody.
"But he has told us he is looking forward to Monday, looking forward to getting back to work and looking forward to playing for Liverpool next season. That's what I know, and I would suggest all other reports are erroneous."
Meanwhile, Liverpool midfielder Lucas Leiva has been recalled by Brazil for the friendly international with the United States on August 10 in New Jersey.
The 23-year-old was not selected for the 2010 World Cup, but has been named by new national coach Mano Menezes -- who he worked with at previous club Gremio in Brazil.
Menezes has called up 11 debutants in a 24-man squad, which features just Dani Alves, Ramires, Thiago Motta and Robinho from predecessor Dunga's line-up in South Africa.
Dunga was sacked after the five-time world champions were beaten in the quarterfinals by eventual runners-up the Netherlands.
