Taylor Swift has another hit on her hands? It must be Tuesday.
At midnight, the 24-year-old pop star released a new track cowritten with fun.'s Jack Antonoff called "Out of the Woods," and it's skyrocketed to No. 1.
It's the second release from her upcoming album, "1989," and like other Swift songs delves into personal territory.
"This song is about the fragility and breakable nature of some relationships," Swift explained to "Good Morning America" on Monday, probably prompting speculation as to which of her ex-boyfriends she could be writing about (early buzz points to One Direction's Harry Styles).
"This was a relationship where -- it was kind of (like) living day-to-day, wondering where it was going, if it was going anywhere, if it was going to end the next day," Swift recalled. "It was a relationship where you kind of never feel like you're standing on solid ground. That kind of feeling brings on excitement but also extreme anxiety, and kind of a frantic feeling of wondering. ... This song sounds exactly like that frantic feeling of anxiety and questioning."
We can actually hear Swift's critics rolling their eyes. But here's one of the best things about the star: Even when she's mocked for writing thinly veiled songs about her love life or criticized for going completely pop and not sticking to her country roots, Swift still follows her own path.
This is a woman who will tell her record label, when instructed not to venture too far off in a new direction, sorry, "but this is how it's going to be." She knows what she wants. She knows who she is. And if you don't like it, she'll just shake off the criticism and write a song about doing so that you secretly won't be able to stop singing.
That's pretty gutsy in an industry that's running scared. Here are five other reasons why you can't help but like Taylor Swift, even if you're not a fan:
1. The catch factor
Have you ever caught yourself singing a catchy ditty and not even remembering how you know the lyrics? It was probably a Taylor Swift track.
Her music has a way of permeating every facet of popular culture, to the point that you don't have to buy her albums to recognize the twang from "You Belong with Me" or sing the hook from "We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together."
2. Seven Grammys later, still more likely to be found baking with cats
Taylor Swift is one of the most recognizable pop stars on the planet, and we can only imagine the access that kind of fame can yield. We would not be at all surprised if the singer could jet from Milan to Tokyo in the blink of an eye in a private jet with seats lined in mink.
But instead of the usual shenanigans you hear about from the very young, privileged and wealthy, Swift is more likely to be found baking cookies or playing with a new kitten.
In other words, probably the exact same things she'd be doing if she weren't famous, which is a rare thing to witness.
3. She obsesses over the same TV shows
Speaking of those cats, one of them is named Olivia Benson, as in one of the starring detectives on "Law & Order: SVU." Another one of the star's feline friends is named after Meredith Grey on Shonda Rhimes' "Grey's Anatomy."
Many celebrities claim to be fans of their famous peers work, but Swift appears to be just as obsessed with your favorite TV shows as you are, almost as if she forgot that she, too, is on the A-list.
4. She's BFFs with everyone, including her fans
It's not hard to rattle off Taylor Swift's famous friends, because she has a growing collection that includes everyone from Selena Gomez and Lorde to actresses Jaime King and Lena Dunham.
But what makes Swift win over in the skeptics is her connection with her fans. She knows at least one of her supporters so well that she could make a surprise appearance at the fan's bachelorette party with complete ease, posing for pictures and handing over a gift that she knew her fan would like.
We'll say that again: She knows her fans well enough that she can buy them personalized presents. Who does that?
5. Her parties are as dorky as yours
While some stars are always sharing photos of their exclusive vacations in exotic faraway locales, Swift's get-togethers look like they could've been photographed in your neighbor's backyard. Fourth of July? She's baking a holiday-themed cake and hitting the Slip N' Slide. Christmas season? She's constructing homemade holiday cards with actress Hailee Steinfeld.
And of course, as endlessly chronicled on Twitter, you know Swift will always dance like no one's watching.
Always.
