(CNN)  -- Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho is hopeful that star striker Cristiano Ronaldo will return for Wednesday's Champions League clash with Lyon.
The Portugal captain will not feature in Saturday's La Liga game at home to Hercules, having sustained a thigh injury during Real's 7-0 defeat of Malaga on March 3.
"I am pretty sure he will play, but I do not like players who are not at 100%," Mourinho told reporters at a press conference on Friday.
"If Cristiano had to play tomorrow he wouldn't because he is not fully fit, but I am sure after training on Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday he will play next Wednesday."
Real are looking to qualify for the quarterfinals of the European competition for the first time since 2004, having drawn 1-1 with the French side in the first leg of the last-16 tie on February 22.
However, despite recording a 3-1 win over Racing Santander last weekend -- and having an unblemished home record this season and Mourinho with any club for the past nine years -- Real remain 11 points behind defending champions Barcelona in the Spanish league.
Mourinho hit out at his arch-rivals, saying that he did not think that the two clubs were receiving the same treatment in terms of their match schedules.
"It's not fair for everyone. One team plays the Champions League on a Tuesday and La Liga on Sunday, and another play on a Wednesday and Saturday," he said.
"Real Madrid is not being given the same chances to compete. I am not stupid. We all know that the moment the lead increases the championship is lost."
Nevertheless, Mourinho said his side would not be taking anything for granted against 18th-placed Hercules, and hoped for a positive result before the home clash with Lyon -- who knocked Real out at the same stage last season before reaching the semifinals.
"Whoever's season is at stake isn't worried. It's not an easy match for us. Their players have a lot of personality and they will expect to earn a positive result," the Portuguese coach said
"We want to remain perfect at the Bernabeu. A solid match will boost our confidence before playing against Lyon."
