CNN's Chief International Correspondent Christiane Amanpour will launch her new live global interview program, "Amanpour," on September 21, 2009.
CNN Chief International Correspondent Christiane Amanpour
The program will run Monday to Thursday at 2100 CET, with a round-up of the best of the week on Fridays on CNN International and Sundays on CNN in the United States.
Combining her experience, sharp intelligence and extraordinary depth of knowledge, Amanpour's show will set the agenda for a new global conversation.
"Amanpour" will offer multiple perspectives and uncommon voices. It will set the news agenda, create media interest, social networking buzz and demonstrate Amanpour's unique ability to address the world's most compelling issues.
Guests will include global leaders, heads of state and cultural icons. Amanpour will interview in a style that will awaken interest in unexpected topics, and serve as the hub for a global community of inquiring minds, hungry for a more daring perspective and a strong, clear, thoughtful take on international stories.
"I want this show to stir the global conscience. I have witnessed so much that it's time to start making real sense of it all," Amanpour says. "I learned to seek facts and to tell the truth no matter how difficult or unpopular, and to not accept a false moral equivalence when none exists. I want to provide a forum for others to do the same."
After spending more than 25 years reporting from around the globe for CNN, Amanpour will take on the new role as host of this half-hour weeknight program. Each episode will primarily focus on one topic -- newsworthy and often provocative -- and will feature guests who challenge and deconstruct conventional wisdom. "Amanpour" will mobilize conversation, encourage debate and facilitate change through these thought-provoking interviews and analysis.
Amanpour's body of work has earned nine News and Documentary Emmys, four George Foster Peabody Awards, two George Polk Awards, three duPont-Columbia Awards, the Courage in Journalism Award, an Edward R. Murrow award, an inaugural Television Academy Honor and many other major journalism awards.
In 2007, Amanpour was made a Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE) by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II for her "highly distinguished, innovative contribution" to the field of journalism.
