Germany recorded their first win over Brazil in 18 years in stunning fashion by defeating the five-time world champions 3-2 in Stuttgart.
Following a goalless first half, the match burst into life during the second period when Germany took the lead through a 61st minute Bastian Schweinsteiger  penalty, dubiously awarded after Brazilian defender Lucio clipped midfielder Toni Kroos in the box.   Germany soon added a second through 19-year-old prodigy Mario Goetze.
The Borussia Dortmund midfielder added to his growing reputation -- German legend Franz Beckenbauer recently described him as the new Lionel Messi -- by scoring an individual effort seven minutes later.
Robinho pulled one back from the penalty spot before Schweinsteiger set up Schuerrle for Germany's third. Real Madrid target Neymar hit a late consolation but Germany's young starlets held out for a famous win.
Current world champions Spain suffered a shock loss against Italy in Bari.
That the result would be considered a shock is perhaps indicative of both team's international trajectories in recent years.
Yet roared on by a large, partisan home crowd Italy took an early lead through a deft Riccardo Montolivo chip.
The opening exchanges were marred by the early substitution of Fernando Torres, suffering from suspected concussion.
A Xabi Alonso penalty before half time brought the scores level. In the second second half Spain looked the more likely to score before fate intervened when Alberto Aquilani's poor shot was fortuitously deflected in.
Elsewhere Chile held France to a 1-1 draw in Montpellier. Marseille striker Loic Remy gave Les Bleus the lead before Nicolas Cordova snatched a late draw. The result extended France's unbeaten run under coach Laurent Blanc to ten matches.
In Switzerland Ivory Coast overcame a late Israeli fight back to win 4-3, Chelsea's Didier Drogba scoring the fourth goal.   In the night's only competitive fixture Northern Ireland beat the Faroe Islands 4-0 to boost their hopes of qualifying for Euro 2012.
Fulham defender Aaron Hughes scored his first international goal before Steve Davis added a second and Paddy McCourt netted twice, lifting Northern Ireland to third in Group C a point behind Slovenia with a game in hand.
