A 17-year-old male has been arrested in connection with a shooting last week at a nightclub where 15 people were wounded, Miami police said.
By Florida law, the suspect initially will be charged as a juvenile. He will face one charge of attempted first-degree murder and 14 counts of aggravated assault with a firearm, police said. Prosecutors will weigh whether to charge him later as an adult.
Miami Police Chief Manuel Orosa said the suspect "decided to take retribution against the individual who apparently fought with his friend" at a high school.
That victim remains in critical condition at Jackson Memorial Hospital. Orosa said he had been shot in the abdomen and was still having stomach issues.
None of the other victims, who range in age from 11 to 25, is still hospitalized.
The shooting occurred on the morning of September 28 at a Miami restaurant/nightclub called The Spot.
The manager was arrested last week and accused of selling liquor without a license, and The Spot was licensed as a restaurant and not as a nightclub, CNN affiliate WSVN reported.
Orosa said the investigation is ongoing because two types of bullet casings were found at the scene and investigators are still trying to locate the getaway car and driver. Several people identified the suspect as the shooter, the chief said.
The suspect has been previously arrested on a marijuana possession charge and for obstructing a police officer, Orosa added.
CNN affiliate WPLG reported last week that a large party was being held when shooting broke out. Witnesses told police they heard about 100 gunshots, WPLG reported.
Capt. Ignatius Carroll of Miami Fire Rescue said the scene was chaotic when emergency medical personnel arrived. Wounded people were found inside the club and on the sidewalk, he said.
"We understand there was a gathering taking place at some sort of little nightclub," he said. "We had a large crowd."
With so many wounded people, emergency responders had to treat some victims on the sidewalk.
CNN's Ralph Ellis and Dave Alsup contributed to this report.
