Could "Preacher" become AMC's next "Walking Dead"?
AMC has officially put into development the long-rumored TV version of Garth Ennis and Steve Dillon's twisted 1990s comic series. Sam Catlin ("Breaking Bad") will serve as executive producer and showrunner, while Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg ("This is the End") will executive produce and write the pilot draft.
'Walking Dead' pranks NYC with zombie attacks
Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg said in a statement: "This is amazing! We've tried for seven years to work on 'Preacher' and we're so psyched AMC is finally letting us. It is our favorite comic of all time, and we're going to do everything we can to do it right. Humperdoo!"
AMC's official description: "'Preacher' follows Reverend Jesse Custer, a tough Texas preacher who has lost his faith, has learned that God has left Heaven and abandoned His responsibilities. He finds himself the only person capable of tracking God down, demanding answers, and making Him answer for His dereliction of duty. Accompanying Jesse on his journey is his former girlfriend and a friendly vampire who seems to prefer a pint in the pub to the blood of the innocent. On his tail is one of the most iconic bad guys in print -- an immortal, unstoppable killing machine named the Saint of Killers -- a western lone gunman archetype whose sole purpose is to hunt and kill Jesse."
About that 'Biggest Loser' winner's weight loss....
Plus, Ennis gave fans a lengthy statement: "Steve Dillon and I are very happy to see 'Preacher' being developed for TV, which seems a much more natural home for the story than a two-hour movie. Between them, Sony TV and AMC have brought viewers two of my favorite shows with 'Breaking Bad' and 'Mad Men,' and it's exactly that kind of creative commitment and courage that 'Preacher' needs.
Obviously it's taken a while, but Ken Levin along with Neal Moritz and his team refused to give up, long after the point when I myself grew skeptical, and their unrelenting enthusiasm for the project has gotten us where we need to be. I'm particularly impressed that Seth Rogen, Evan Goldberg and Sam Catlin understand 'Preacher' fully — meaning they get it for what it is, not some vague approximation. All in all, it looks like 'Preacher' can now be brought to TV in a way that I'd previously not have thought possible, and I very much appreciate that Steve and I have been included in the conversation in the way that we have."
See the original story at EW.com.
