All-conquering rally champion Sebastien Loeb has told CNN that it is "too late" for him to consider a career switch to Formula One.
The Frenchman, who has broken every record in the off-track motorsport in clinching a seventh consecutive world title this season, had his dreams dashed late last year when he was refused a licence to drive in F1.
"I don't think it's potential for the future," Loeb told World Sport's Kate Giles when asked if still had any ambitions to drive in F1.
"The story about Formula One started because Red Bull gave me the opportunity to test after my title in 2008, and everyone was very surprised that I was close to the times.
"That gave the idea to Red Bull to make me drive in a race [in 2009 for feeder team Toro Rosso], and finally at the last everything was planned to do the last race of the season and the FIA didn't give me the licence for that.
Blog: Vettel win ushers in new era
"Now I'm 36 years old and when you see some young drivers coming in, they're 20 years old, so maybe's it's a bit too late. If I have the opportunities to drive a Formula One car, for sure I will take it, but I've got no plan to do a career in that."
Loeb bounced back from that disappointment to take out his frustrations on his rally rivals this year, clinching another crown in his hometown of Haguenau early last month.
"It was really special for me. A few years ago I couldn't expect to have a rally in my hometown," he said.
"Now I had it this year and I finally won the rally and the championship in the same place, so for sure it was a lot of emotion and a great atmosphere, a really good rally. There were a lot of fans, my family was here and my friends, so it was really good."
Loeb has dominated the World Rally Championship with Citroen, having won a record 64 races ahead of this weekend's season-ending event in Wales, Britain.
He claimed his first victory in Germany in 2002 and was then championship runner-up by just one point the following year as Citroen made a fulltime entry to the competition.
So how does he maintain motivation after sweeping all behind him in the past seven years?
"My motivation is just because I like what I do. I enjoy driving, I enjoy the fight and the competition. My goal next year will be to get another title," Loeb said.
He revealed, however, that he is getting near the end of his rally career.
It's on my mind, yes, but when I don't know. I will drive next year, that's the plan. For the future, I have no idea at the moment, I will drive as long as I am motivated. And for the future I will maybe have some other plans, but not specially in Formula One."
