David Beckham was sent off just six minutes after coming onto the pitch as three further dismissals and a mass brawl overshadowed Paris Saint-Germain's 1-0 win over Evian.
The former England captain, who joined PSG in January on a five-month deal, was introduced as an 83rd-minute substitute for PSG before being given his marching orders for a lunging challenge on Youssef Adnane.
PSG, who are close to securing a first French Ligue 1 title in 19 years following the win, saw Italian midfielder Marco Verratti pick up a second yellow card two minutes before Beckham was brought on.
Tempers flared on and off the pitch, with PSG assistant coach Claude Makelele sent to the stands for remonstrating with officials.
PSG goalkeeper Salvatore Sirigu and Evian's Saber Khelifa were given red cards following a mass brawl which broke out on the final whistle.
The sending off could be Beckham's last act in a PSG shirt, with the 37-year-old's contract set to expire at the end of the current season.
"The referee lacked lucidity," PSG sporting director Leonardo told French newspaper Le Parisien. "He made mistakes. The red card shown to Beckham, for example, was really unfair.
"It was always a very tense match. Nobody wanted to lose -- especially not Evian, who are struggling to stay up," added Leonardo, referring to Evian's place in the Ligue 1 table, with the club level of points with third from bottom Sochaux.
"I also believe that our team is really tired at the end of the season."
The visitors' winning goal came in the 50th minute from Argentine Javier Pastore and allows PSG to wrap up the title on Sunday if they record a better result against Valenciennes than second-placed Marseille manage in Saturday's match with Bastia.
Sunday's red card wasn't the first Beckham has received in France.
The former Real Madrid and Manchester United star was infamously dismissed for kicking out at Argentina's Diego Simeone while playing for England at the 1998 World Cup.
Beckham was vilified by fans following the red card, with many blaming the midfielder for England's exit from the tournament.
Glenn Hoddle's team lost the second round match in Saint Etienne on penalties following a 2-2 draw.
