Jill Kelley's legal team is launching a full-court press to defend her reputation in response to damaging reports from the scandal involving former CIA director David Petraeus, according to sources close to Kelley.
Kelley's legal team is alleging that "government sources" are responsible for the leaks to the media about her personal life, starting with her name. A letter from Kelley's lawyer obtained by CNN asks whether the Department of Justice is investigating these alleged leaks, which Kelley's attorney Abbe Lowell refers to as potential violations of the Privacy Act.
In the letter, Lowell opens the door to legal action, writing "we are researching these issues to advise (the Kelleys) of their right to pursue these issues civilly."
CNN could not reach the Justice Department for comment.
Other documents obtained by CNN indicate that Lowell is filing a complaint with the Attorney Consumer Assistance Program in Florida against a lawyer who once represented Kelley. Lowell claims that Kelley's attorney-client privilege may have been violated. The complaint suggests the lawyer targeted in the complaint "held a press conference to discuss his relationship with (Kelley) and other members of her family" without Kelley's knowledge or permission. CNN called the lawyer's office but was not able to reach him.
Petraeus mistress seeks normal life
Another letter went to a former business associate of Kelley's, New York oil and gas developer Adam Victor. It warned Victor that some of his public statements about Kelley were false and may constitute defamation. When contacted, Victor asserted that all of his public statements about Kelley were accurate. "One hundred percent of what I said was the truth," Victor said.
Kelley to lose honorary diplomatic title
Sources close to Kelley also released several photos of her to try to project "a more complete" image of the woman who alerted the FBI to allegedly threatening emails from David Petraeus' mistress, Paula Broadwell.
Howard Kurtz: Too much hype
The photos show Kelley with her family and serving meals to the homeless on Christmas Day.
