Manchester United's hopes of winning a treble this season ended on Saturday with a 1-0 defeat to arch-rivals Manchester City in the semifinals of the English FA Cup at Wembley Stadium.
Alex Ferguson's team are on course for a record-breaking 19th English league title and have also reached the semifinals of the European Champions League, but Yaya Toure's second-half winner gave City the chance of winning a first trophy in 35 years.
The Ivory Coast midfielder pounced after consecutive errors by veteran goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar and midfielder Michael Carrick allowed him the chance to drill in a low shot seven minutes after halftime.
United's bid to reach the final of the 140-year-old knockout competition for a record 19th time was then sabotaged by a moment of madness from 36-year-old midfielder Paul Scholes.
The former England international, the only player of the two squads actually born in Manchester, was sent off with 18 minutes left for a reckless high lunge into the thigh of City's Argentine defender Pablo Zabaleta.
Ferguson casts doubt over Hargreaves future
City last won the tournament in 1969, and most recently reached the final in 1981 -- one of the modern classics which was won in a replay by Tottenham.
Roberto Mancini's team will face either Bolton or Stoke in the final on May 14, with the two Premier League teams meeting in Sunday's second semifinal also at England's national stadium.
The Italian urged his team not to get carried away, with the club still battling to qualify for next season's Champions League.
"We have everything in our hands. If we have the same spirit we had today, we have the fourth spot," he said, having molded City into contenders since taking charge December 2009 after being handed a lavish transfer kitty by billionaire owner Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
"Manchester City was a small team until three, four, five years ago. It's important to start to win the first trophies."
United should have taken an early lead after dominating the first half-hour, with Dimitar Berbatov guilty of two bad misses in quick succession.
The Bulgarian, starting in place of suspended England striker Wayne Rooney, was first denied by quick-thinking goalkeeper Joe Hart and then belied the form that has seen him become the Premier League's top scorer this season by inexplicably scooping the ball over the bar from close range after being found by Nani's inviting low cross.
City, missing injured captain and top scorer Carlos Tevez, capitalized on some slack United defending after the interval as the 40-year-old Van der Sar -- who retires at the end of this season -- made a poor clearance and then Carrick gave the ball away to Toure.
Hart did well to tip a 65th-minute freekick from Nani onto the crossbar before Scholes' red card forced a reshuffle with Berbatov replaced by midfielder Anderson.
Man of the match Toure was denied by Van der Sar in the final minute and City survived five minutes of time added on to reach the club's second final since winning the English League Cup in 1976.
The match ended in ugly scenes as United defender Rio Ferdinand had to be restrained after Anderson reacted to City striker Mario Balotelli's unwise celebrations in front of opposition fans.
Ancelotti in troubled waters at the Bridge
In Saturday's Premier League action, third-placed defending champions Chelsea moved five points clear of City with a 3-1 victory at mid-table West Brom.
The London club bounced back from the midweek Champions League exit at the hands of United as striker Didier Drogba leveled the scoring after this time being given the chance to start instead of $80 million signing Fernando Torres.
West Brom had led through Nigeria striker peter Odemwingie, but Salomon Kalou put Chelsea ahead in the 26th minute and Frank Lampard sealed victory just before halftime.
The result eased any fears that Chelsea will not qualify for next season's top European competition, moving Carlo Ancelotti's team eight points clear of fifth-placed Tottenham -- who host United's main title rivals Arsenal on Wednesday.
Arsenal can reduce United's lead to four points by beating sixth-placed Liverpool on Sunday in a match that Kenny Dalglish's team also need to win in order to beat Tottenham to the sole Europa League spot.
Everton consolidated seventh place with a 2-0 victory at home to Blackburn thanks to second-half goals by midfielder Leon Osman and defender Leighton Baines, the latter a penalty.
Aston Villa moved up to ninth with a last-gasp 2-1 victory at second-bottom West Ham as substitute striker Gabriel Agbonlahor headed an injury-time winner after teammate Darren Bent canceled out Robbie Keane's early opener.
Sunderland, European hopefuls earlier this season, slumped to an eighth defeat in nine games as the 2-0 loss at Birmingham left both clubs in a group of four teams on 38 points -- five clear of the relegation zone.
Wigan moved out of the bottom three with a 3-1 win at Blackpool that dropped the promoted home team into the danger area for the first time this season.
