Ireland's Kevin O'Brien scored the fastest century in cricket World Cup history to help his country claim a sensational three-wicket Group B victory over England in Bangalore.
O'Brien reached the magical three figures in just 50 balls, smashing the previous best mark of 66 deliveries set by Australia's Matthew Hayden against South Africa in 2007.
The 26-year-old O'Brien hit six sixes and 13 fours on his way to 113, helping Ireland reach 329 for seven with five balls to spare, in reply to England's total of 327 for eight from their 50 overs.
As well as O'Brien's remarkable innings, Ireland's victory marked the highest second innings run chase in World Cup history -- beating Sri Lanka's 313 against Zimbabwe in New Zealand in 1992
Speaking after collecting his man-of-the-match award, O'Brien -- who also played in Ireland's famous 2007 World Cup win over Pakistan -- said: "I don't think it's quite sunk in.
"It's probably the best innings I've ever played. I just hit the ball pretty well and got a bit of luck and things went my way. I just kept going and kept attacking."
England came into the match as hot favorites following their thrilling tie against India on Sunday and they looked to be firmly in control when Ireland were reduced to 111 for five.
But O'Brien and Alex Cusack went on to score 162 in a superb six-wicket stand before Cusack was eventually run out for 47.
However, O'Brien remained at the crease and when he was eventually dismissed with the score on 317, also by run out, Ireland needed just 12 runs from two more overs to secure a famous success.
England captain Andrew Strauss told reporters: "We thought we'd done a reasonable job with the bat and we got Ireland at five down and things were looking pretty comfortable.
"But we weren't reckoning on an outstanding innings from Kevin O'Brien. It was pretty brutal."
Earlier, England's Jonathan Trott equalled the record for the fastest 1,000 runs in one-day internationals.
Trott's score of 92 meant he joined team-mate Kevin Pietersen and West Indies legend Viv Richards in taking just 21 innings to achieve that feat.
