(The Frisky) -- When "Dazed and Confused" came out in 1993, my sophomore year of high school, my friends and I saw it at the dollar movie theater no less than 16 times. We memorized lines like, "Check ya later," "Fry like bacon you little freshman piggies!" We took trips to the Salvation Army to scavenge for Levi cutoffs like Darla's (Parker Posey), fringed vests like Michelle's (Milla Jovovitch), or bell bottoms like Jodi's (Michelle Burke).
We scoped for dudes to crush on like Mitch (Wiley Wiggins) or Pickford (Shawn Andrews). The movie struck a nerve with us-we were caught in the jaded whirlwind of 90s grunge, à la Nirvana. The kids of Lee High elicited a magical nostalgia of what it must have been like to be a teen in the 70s, when times were simpler and we could have made bongs in shop class and gone to KISS concerts. I thought my love for the film may have been a "high school thing," but when I caught it on TV this past weekend, it was just as magical as ever. In fact, it was even better.
So where are they now, the cool kids of Lee High? What did they grow up to be?
Matthew McConaughey as "David Wooderson"  Then: David Wooderson was that slimy older dude who was working for the city by day and partying at the Moon Tower by night. Even with the creepy 'stache and the skin-tight pants, he still managed to exude sex appeal.  Now: Matthew is still exuding sex appeal as a rom-com king in movies such as "How to Lose a Guy in Ten Days," "Fool's Gold," and "Failure to Launch." Yup, he does his best work with his shirt off.
The Frisky: Texas math teacher wins lottery 4 times
Ben Affleck as "Fred O'Bannion"  Then: "Fafffleck" ("fat Affleck") played haze-happy, fifth-year senior Fred O'Bannion.  Now: Ben is much thinner, much hotter, much richer, and much more famous now. He's an A-List movie star married to another A-List movie star, Jennifer Garner. If you haven't heard of him or don't know what he's been up to lately, then you've been living in an isolated cave since 1993.
The Frisky: "Bachelorette" Ali's 6 steps make any man fall madly in love
Marissa Ribisi as "Cynthia Dunn"  Then: Cynthia Dunn was the apple of Wooderson's eye as the smart chick with a red afro that she combed with a pick.  Now: Marissa, twin sister of actor Giovanni Ribisi, has had reasonable success in her career since the film came out. She guest starred on "Friends" and "Felicity," and co-wrote her own film in 1998 called "Some Girl." However, for the last few years she's stepped away from the spotlight and has focused on her marriage to musician Beck. Coincidentally, Marisa was delivered as a baby by Beck's mother; the two were both raised Scientologists and are raising their own children, son Cosimo and daughter Tuesday, as Xenuphiles as well. Ribisi also has a clothing line, Whitley Kros, which launched in 2007.
The Frisky: Bristol Palin's friend may be pregnant with Levi Johnston's child
Adam Goldberg as "Mike Newhouse"  Then: Every high school has a token misanthrope who just wants to dance but ends up getting in a fight by calling someone a "male dominant monkey [expletive]....." Mike Newhouse did the honors at Lee High.  Now: Adam is certainly no misanthrope in the entertainment industry. He made a name for himself with his neurotic charm appearing in a bajillion things, including "Saving Private Ryan," "A Beautiful Mind," "Entourage," or "2 Days In Paris" with Julie Delphy whom he also dated.
Parker Posey as "Darla Marks"  Then: Darla Marks was the senior with an attitude you did not want to piss off before first period for fear of being tarred and feathered.  Now: Parker went on to become an indie film queen appearing in lots of films you saw at your local art house theater. I loved her the most in the Christopher Guest films "Waiting for Guffman" and "Best In Show." You may have seen her on the small screen recently in "The Return of Jezebel James" and "Bored to Death" as Jason Schwartzman's love interest.
The Frisky: 8 totally inappropriate celebrity couplings
Jason London as "Randall 'Pink' Floyd"  Then: Randall "Pink" Floyd was the hot football player with a rebellious streak. Yum.  Now: Don't get Jason confused with his twin brother Jeremy, the one with the drug problem. Jason is on the straight and narrow and has continued to act since the film. You may have seen him on "7th Heaven," "Grey's Anatomy" or, most recently, "NCIS."
Joey Lauren Adams as "Simone Kerr"  Then: Pink's girlfriend, actress Simone Kerr, did not go around inhaling helium balloons. That was just Joey Lauren Adam's natural voice.  Now: We remember Joey best as lesbian Alyssa Jones in "Chasing Amy," which Ben Affleck co-starred in. Most recently you may have seen her in "The Breakup" or as Pammy in the "United States of Tara" starring Toni Collette.
The Frisky: 6 roles written for men, but cast as women
Wiley Wiggins as "Mitch Kramer"  Then: Oh, Mitch Kramer. Mitchy, Mitchy, Mitchy. What a crush we had on that little nose-grabbin' freshman just trying to avoid his hazing and make it with the ladies.  Now: Wiley's all grown up now. You can find him acting in films, writing, making art, or doing web design in Austin, Texas. You can follow him on Twitter but he'll punch your face if you ask him to touch his nose ... according to his bio. Darn.
Christin Hinojosa as "Sabrina Davis"  Then: Sabrina Davis was the lucky freshman chick that the older kids took a shine to.  Now: Christin left behind her acting career after a brief appearance in "Clueless" the television show and became an anti-war activist. She's married and lives in Oakland.
The Frisky: 30 things every woman should quit doing by 30
Shawn Andrews as "Kevin Pickford"  Then: Who can forget Kevin Pickford? You know, the guy with the amazing abs who was throwing a keg party at his house before his parents caught on? Fun fact: during the filming of "Dazed and Confused," Shawn eloped with co-star Milla Jovovich, who also played his girlfriend, Michelle Burroughs, the hot girl who didn't really talk. She was only 16 at the time, so her mom had the marriage annulled after two months. Oh, young love.  Now: Since then, Shawn has appeared in a handful of other movies, most recently "Fix" opposite Olivia Wilde, but apparently, he never really bounced back from wedding a teenager. At least he still looks amazing.
The Frisky: 4 myths about women that aren't true
Catherine Avril Morris as "Julie Simms"  Then: Julie Simms was the lucky sophomore who got to make out on a blanket with Mitch Kramer. I was super jealous. Fun fact: Catherine scored the part because she was actually the film's casting assistant.  Now: Now Catherine is a middle school Language Arts teacher and writer in Austin, Texas. She has her own blog, "Of Course I Write Romance Novels," and is a member of the Romance Writers of America. She's also learning to play Whitesnake on her accordion and has a great working knowledge of Astrology.
Rory Cochrane as "Ron Slater"  Then: Lovable Ron Slater was the long-haired hippie always ready with a silly catchphrase at the ready like, "Hey man ... are you cool?" or "Check ya later." Now: Since the movie, Rory has done relatively well for himself, appearing in "Empire Records" alongside his "Dazed and Confused" costars Ben Affleck, Jason London, and Renee Zellweger-who made a cameo in the film and was his live-in girlfriend for four years-as well as the Richard Linklater film "A Scanner Darkly." Most recently he was in the movie "Public Enemies" with Johnny Depp and a series regular on "24" and "CSI: Miami." He's reuniting with another one of his "Dazed" costars, Milla Jovovich, in the 2011 film "Bringing Up Bobby" written by actress Famke Janssen.
The Frisky: Mel Gibson's set pranks humiliated his female co-stars
Anthony Rapp as "Tony Olson"  Then: Why wouldn't Sabrina fall for the sweet, sensitive intellectual Tony Olson? He was dreamy.  Now: While Anthony continues to do some film and television, he has achieved major success in the theater world. You may have seen him as struggling musician Mark Cohen in "Rent," both the original Broadway production and the film.
The Frisky: 7 celeb ladies who are missing their belly buttons
Michelle Burke as "Jodi Kramer"  Then: Jodi Kramer was Mitch's sexy, two-timing, meddling older sis.  Now: Currently, Michelle is working on a movie with Miley Cyrus, Demi Moore, Ashley Greene, and Thomas Jane called "LOL: Laughing Out Loud." Gee, I really hope the film lives up to its title. If Michelle is as funny as she was as Connie Conehead on film, everything should be fine.
TM & © 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
