Rep.  Mike Rogers, a former FBI agent and vocal critic of the Obama administration's  dealing with terrorists, will head the House Intelligence Committee when  Republicans take control of the House next year.
Incoming House Speaker  John Boehner announced Wednesday his choice of the Michigan Republican to lead the panel which oversees the  secret work and the budgets of the 16 agencies and departments which make up the  intelligence community.
Rogers is not one to mince words. He has made it clear where he stands on a number of  fronts which could be a thorn in the side of the Obama administration. He  doesn't think the Guantanamo  Bay detention facility in  Cuba should be closed. Rogers wants terror suspects to be considered enemy combatants who would not be read their Miranda rights and would be put on trial before military tribunals held at Guantanamo.
Rogers has accused the  administration of treating terrorism as "lawfare" instead of warfare.
"We do not need Eliot Ness on the battlefield; what we need is Gen. George S. Patton," said  the lawmaker.
The five-term congressman  is a former FBI agent and has been critical of the bureau for its failure to solve  its computer problems and its inability to integrate its 2,800 analysts.
Rogers beat out Rep. William "Mac" Thornberry, R-Texas, for the  job.
In a prepared statement,  Boehner said, "Mike Rogers' experience and expertise has proven invaluable  throughout his tenure on the Intelligence  Committee."
The outgoing ranking  member of the committee called Rogers the right man at the right time for the  job. Rep. Pete Hoekstra, R-Michigan, said "intelligence is at the tip of the  spear in the fight against terrorists and America's foreign adversaries, and Mike is a  strong leader to conduct oversight of such a critical issue to the  U.S."
Since the Intelligence  Committee is considered a select committee, the speaker has the sole  responsibility of appointing its chairman.
But Boehner did seem to  offer Thornberry a possible consolation prize. The speaker-elect said he will  recommend to the Republican Steering Committee that Thornberry be appointed the  vice chairman of the powerful Armed Services Committee.
