The San Diego County, California, sheriff and other officials are to hold a town hall meeting Tuesday night about what will become of the house that's the site of the nation's largest cache of homemade explosives ever found in one spot.
For now, the single-story suburban house in an unincorporated area outside Escondido has been deemed too dangerous for bomb squad technicians to re-enter after they discovered homemade explosives inside last week, officials said. Eight or 9 pounds of explosives were found in the backyard after a gardener was injured when he accidentally ignited the material almost two weeks ago.
It has been cordoned off, but residents are concerned about how authorities plan to secure a house that a prosecutor has described as a bomb-making factory.
The house's resident, George Djura Jakubec, 54, a computer software consultant, is being held in lieu of $5 million bail on bomb-making and bank robbery charges.
The homemade explosives are volatile and are the kind favored by terrorists worldwide: hexamethylene triperoxide diamine, or HMTD, and pentaerythritol tetranitrate, or PETN, which is now the target of new U.S. airport body scans and pat downs.
Authorities are investigating Jakubec's intentions.
Exacerbating the work of the bomb squad is the overwhelming volume of clutter that indicates Jakubec was a hoarder of papers, boxes and other items, officials said. Friction from moving any papers or boxes could cause hidden explosives to ignite, officials said.
Authorities have removed about 9 pounds of HMTD from the backyard, a quantity that one expert likened to a large car bomb that could blow out the house's windows and doors and damage adjacent houses.
Joy Colclough lives about 100 yards from the hazardous home, according to CNN affiliate KGTV.
She received a reverse 911 call earlier Tuesday, warning her of potential activity around the residence, but has not been asked to evacuate.
"It's not a convenient time. But I don't think there's any convenient time for having explosives next door to where you live," she told KGTV.
On Tuesday afternoon, Assistant San Diego County Sheriff Ed Prendergast declined to provide details of officials' presentation for the town hall meeting, scheduled to start at 7 p.m. PT at Woodland Park Middle School in San Marcos.
Sheriff Bill Gore, Escondido Police Chief Jim Maher, Escondido Fire Chief Michael Lowry and other public safety officials were to answer questions from residents about the explosives and hazardous chemicals that remain in the house, and authorities will provide information about personal safety regarding the planned disposal of the volatile materials.
The additional HMTD discovered inside the house last week is in a bottle, Prendergast said. PETN was also found inside the house, officials said.
"We have not removed it yet. It's too dangerous to move. Any movement can set it off," Prendergast said.
"We have a saying: We'll go as fast as we can but slow as we must," he added.
