An athlete who didn't even compete at the Commonwealth Games was the star attraction Saturday in Glasgow.
It wasn't just any athlete, mind you, but the fastest man in the world in Jamaica's Usain Bolt.
Bolt arrived in Glasgow amid a throng of journalists and photographers and it didn't take long for him to deliver his trademark 'lightning Bolt' pose alongside the Games' mascot, Clyde, and local school children.
Bolt hasn't raced in 2014 as he recovered from a foot injury but that's set to change as he said he'll take part in the 4x100-meter relay heats that begin Friday.
"I will be running in the heats," the world-record holder in the 100 and 200 meters said in a press conference. "I think I need the (races) because this is my first run of the season.
"The injury is completely gone. Fitness wise, I have done a lot of training over this past month. I have been really pushing myself.
"I think I am in pretty good shape, but I'm not in running shape. That's why I am running the heats."
The six-time Olympic gold medalist won't be involved in any individual races.
He added that he was excited to be making his Games debut after missing the 2006 edition with a hamstring injury and deciding to skip the 2010 Games in India because of how close it was to the 2011 World Championships.
Bolt plans on being a tourist, too, if only for a little bit, and expects to see a "lot of rain" and plenty of kilts in Glasgow.
Grandfather ties record
Meanwhile, England's Mick Gault tied a Commonwealth Games record when he claimed an 18th medal by winning the bronze in the 10-meter air pistol.
Gault isn't your typical Games participant -- he's a 60-year-old grandfather.
He retired due to illness after the 2010 Games but decided to return one last time.
"I just feel good that a 60-year-old can do that, just do what I've done," he told BBC television. "It's one for England, it's one for the sport, it's one for me, one for the wife and kids who have been through an awful lot.
"The wife's insisted this is my last one. Definitely my last one.
"The stress we go through is horrendous, so job done really."
Gault can break the record he now shares with Australian shooter Phillip Adams, given he still has one more event.
