Who is the first person you call when the sports team you support is experiencing a dire run of results?
In the case of one disgruntled Manchester United his first port of call was to British police demanding to speak with the team's former manager Alex Ferguson.
The drunken fan had seemingly had enough after Manchester United, now managed by David Moyes, were beaten on penalties by Sunderland in the semifinals of the League Cup -- England's second most prestigious cup competition.
The desperate plea was revealed on Wednesday by Great Manchester Police (GMP), who advised against such calls being made to the emergency services.
"A man from the Crumpsall area of North Manchester rang 999 in a drunken state demanding to speak to Sir Alex Ferguson about last night's result," read a GMP statement posted on its Facebook page.
"Obviously, it can be a sad and depressing moment when you're football team loses a game, however, can we all please remember that 999 is to be used for emergencies only.
"For any other police-related enquiries that are not an emergency, you can ring 101."
The English champions' recent run of poor form has left supporters clamoring for a return of the success enjoyed under Ferguson.
The Scot was in the United dugout for 26 years, winning two European Cups and 13 English titles before handing the reigns over to Moyes at the end of the 2012-13 season.
Moyes, formerly the manager of Everton, has endured a torrid start to his tenure. United sits seventh in the English Premier League table, 14 points adrift of leaders Arsenal, and has been eliminated from both the League and FA Cups.
GMP warned that calls such as the one made on Wednesday can prevent police from attending genuine emergencies.
"Silly calls like this one are thoughtless and can make a difference in a life and death situation," said GMP's business lead for call handling Diane Grandidge.
"As a force we receive thousands of emergency and non-emergency calls, which is why I would urge those considering making such pranks to think twice.
GMP suggested that any fan wishing to get hold of Ferguson, who has frequently attended United matches since retiring in May, should contact the club directly.
"If you would like to speak to Sir Alex about recent football results we here at GMP Manchester North can only suggest you try ringing Manchester United FC directly as you will probably (not definitely) have a much better chance of getting through to him there rather than ringing the police."
