The Country Music Association Awards show is billed as "Country Music's Biggest Night" -- and it certainly was for married stars Blake Shelton and Miranda Lambert, who cemented their status as Nashville's golden couple by winning male and female vocalist of the year for the fourth year in a row.
Shelton also picked up his first win for album of the year Wednesday night, but "The Voice" star was aced out as entertainer of the year by sentimental favorite George Strait, who last won that title in 1990.
Afterward, Shelton told a roomful of journalists, "He's not just entertainer of the year. He's entertainer of the last three decades ... he's King George, and I couldn't be happier with how this night turned out."
There were some fresh faces at the podium, too.
Kacey Musgraves was named new artist of the year, while Florida Georgia Line nabbed duo of the year and single of the year for the summertime smash "Cruise."
And at the tender age of 23, Taylor Swift received the CMA's prestigious Pinnacle Award for achieving global success and recognition unique to country music.
Swift later told CNN, "I was freaking out. My parents were losing it. ... This is kind of like a night you have in your daydreams where it's like everyone you love is there. It just was unreal, honestly."
The 47th Annual CMA Awards opened with a musical number that parodied a real-life "feud," pitting the Zac Brown Band's frontman against supporters of chart topper Luke Bryan -- reportedly because Brown had criticized Bryan's latest single in a radio interview.
But even before the show started, Bryan told CNN, "Zac and I saw each other backstage, and we hugged, and it's not that way ... so it's all good. No big feud. Me and Zac -- we may have a collaboration coming one of these days. You never know."
In their sixth year as hosts, Brad Paisley and Carrie Underwood got some laughs with a skit that mocked Obamacare. The pair pretended to be trying to sign up for the health care program before launching into a new take on the George Strait classic "Amarillo by Morning."
"Obamacare by morning," they sang. "Why's this taking so long? I'm going to end up with hemorrhoids/If I sit here 'til dawn."
