A U.N. official has a message for those worried about chemical weapons in Syria: A plan is in motion to do something about them.
The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is in the capital of Damascus this week to sort out the plan for the destruction of 12 facilities used to make chemical weapons, Sigrid Kaag said Wednesday.
Kaag, the special adviser overseeing the destruction of Syria's chemical stockpiles, addressed the Security Council on Wednesday, according to Gary Quinlan, the Australian ambassador to the United Nations and head of the council.
He relayed that plans to destroy seven hangers and five underground tunnels are to start later this month and are to be completed in the summer of 2015.
The OPCW team is also in consultations to draw up plans for the destruction of chemical weapons facilities that were previously not disclosed by the Syrian government, including a ricin production facility, Quinlan said.
In October, Kaag informed the Security Council that there were four chemical weapons sites previously undisclosed, including one production facility.
"There are additional sites that we've become aware of since the initial declaration of production facilities," Quinlan told reporters after the meeting. "So now the question is: sorting out, in Damascus, precisely what is done with those.
"As I said, there's an OPCW team in Damascus right now which is looking at a range of these sorts of issues."
Quinlan made clear that all disclosed chemical weapons had been removed from the country and 98% of the declared chemical materials, which amounts to more than 1,300 tons, had been destroyed.
Quinlan commended the effort, calling it a "difficult task" because of the "volatile security environment" and "slow-rolling" by the the government of Bashar al-Assad.
Bashar Jaafari, the Syrian ambassador to the United Nations, said the remaining issues with the OPCW were technical issues and said that later acknowledgment of other production facilities were "discrepancies."
Jaafari said the Syrian government has been cooperating with Kaag and the OPCW.
Airstrikes in Syria called 'illegitimate'
Separately, Jaafari told CNN on Wednesday that the coalition airstrikes in Syria are "illegitimate."
The United States has led a coalition conducting airstrikes in Syria and Iraq against ISIS, which has grabbed large swaths of land in those two war-torn countries. ISIS now calls itself the Islamic State.
Are anti-ISIS airstrikes in Syria aiding Bashar al-Assad?
He said that there has been no coordination with the coalition members on the locations of the airstrikes, adding that the only intelligence he received from a coalition member was before the first day of airstrikes in Syria in September.
CNN learned then that Samantha Power, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, had notified Jaafari of incoming airstrikes.
"The Syrian army is targeting terrorists who are using civilians as human shields, including their own families," Jaafari said of the ongoing conflict.
When asked about reports of targeting volunteers and medical workers, he said that they are lies to "discredit" and "defame" the Syrian government.
Regarding French involvement, he said that the "French are directly involved with the Turkish government, sponsoring the terrorist groups in Syria," and called it an "interference in a sovereign state."
He added that he considers the coalition airstrikes even worse than this.
