"F.E.A.R. 3," the latest installment in the action-horror series, aims higher than your typical first-person shooter game.
It boasts cool combat features, a spooky paranormal story line and some dramatic tension. But because its emphasis is on combat, not thrills, the game is not nearly as scary as it should be.
"F.E.A.R. 3" (Day 1 Studios, Warner Bros. Interactive) continues its franchise's story of a family in conflict as two brothers work together to track down their psychically enhanced mother, Alma, who is about to give birth. However, their reasons for wanting to find dear Mom are totally opposite.
Filmmaker John Carpenter, director of the classic fright flick "Halloween," helped create cinematics for the game that heighten its fear factor. Comic book horror writer Steve Niles co-wrote the story line.
Co-op mode is the preferred mode of play here, allowing you to take advantage of each brother's skills during combat and strive toward the highest score on each level. You can play as Point Man, who is well versed in military training and technique, or as Paxton Fettel, who was slain during the original "F.E.A.R" but returns here as a ghost with psychic energy powers.
The brothers must navigate wave after wave of soldiers, whacked-out cultists and creepy creatures created from Alma's mind. The battlefields range from a looted food warehouse to the science bunker where Alma is being held.
While the action is pretty linear, there are detours in which you can search for hidden weapons and ammo, psychic link gathering locations, and an Alma doll, which scores big points when found. There are enemies who require some extra work to defeat, including one called a Phase Caster, who summons additional soldiers over and over. Kill him first. Seriously.
It is easy to get immersed in the run-and-gun aspects of "F.E.A.R. 3," but keep in mind that it's also supposed to be a horror game. Remember, Mom is a psychic time bomb allegedly waiting to erupt when she gives birth to ... whatever.
To be sure, there are some very good horror moments in the game. The apparitions that briefly appear, scare and disappear are disconcerting. And having a ghost brother along during solo mode is a constant reminder.
When they occur, the terror elements are jump-out-of-your-seat frightening. It is almost like watching a horror movie from the eyes of the lead actor.
The problem is those moments don't seem to occur as often as you'd think or hope. There were plenty of times in the game where I forgot it was supposed to be a thriller and not just a shooter.
Some levels' features are so combat-heavy that there's no room for any memorable paranormal experiences. Early in the game I was peeking around every corner expecting to find some apparition or twisted scene, only to shrug and move on. By the end of the game, I stopped looking for ghosts and just treated everything as a combat scene.
Multiplayer modes help make the game fun to replay. You can work together with your teammates to survive waves of enemies emerging from an advancing fog, or be possessed by Alma and try to take over your former teammates.
"F.E.A.R 3" is a well-made first-person shooter that will challenge players with intelligent enemies and compelling battles. Sadly, the frights aren't quite as jarring as they could have been.
Which, I'm sure, makes the ghosts very sad. Boo.
"F.E.A.R. 3" is playable on the PC, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360. It is available now in North America, Australia and the UK. The game is rated M for mature due to blood and gore, intense violence, partial nudity and strong language. This review was done after playing the Xbox 360 version.
