They quit their jobs, sold their cars, cashed in on their bikes and flogged their fridges -- but it was worth every penny to watch their team win the Club World Cup.
The fans of Brazilian side Corinthians, one of the most devoted sets of supporters in world football, raised funds any way they could to ensure they made it to Japan to witness history as the Sao Paulo side defeated Chelsea in Yokohama.
With an estimated 30,000 Corinithians fans packed into the stadium, Paulo Guerrero set off the Samba celebrations by netting a 69th minute winner.
That strike unleashed a carnival atmosphere around the streets of Yokohama as Corinthians became the first team from South America to win the competition since 2006.
Corinthians: Craziest fans in the world?
"We played a high quality match," a delighted Corinthians coach Tite told reporters.
"Everything went well. Each player performed their own role and were able to do well in their position. I'm very happy."
The South American side, who won the Copa Libertadores in July, rode their luck at times with goalkeeper Cassio making several important stops.
The crucial moment came with 21 minutes of the contest remaining when Guerrero headed in from close range after Danilo's shot was blocked.
Chelsea, which recently became the first ever defending holder to exit the Champions League at the Group Stage, had its chances to equalize but failed to hit the target.
Spain international Fernando Torres missed three golden opportunities to score, while Juan Mata hit a post late on.
Gary Cahill was also sent off after an alleged off the ball incident with Emerson as Chelsea's dream of world domination died.
Chelsea cruise into Club World Cup final
"This is the final of the World Cup for the South American teams," Chelsea's interim manager Benitez told reporters.
"You could see this from the first minute. Our players have some quality but, physically, some of them aren't so strong.
"We knew it would be a tough game against a good team. I think they had one (clear cut) chance and they scored and we didn't take our chances. That was the difference.
"We had four very clear chances. Their goalkeeper was man of the match (sic) and for me that means a lot."
The defeat left Chelsea's David Luiz, a boyhood supporter of Corinthians, in tears at the final whistle.
"The game was decided by details," he told FIFA's official website.
"I am a player who has ambition, pride and personality. If you ask me if I like to lose, I will answer that I don't. I have heart, emotion, and that's what happened. I was overcome."
CONCACAF champions Monterrey took third place earlier Sunday, defeating Al Ahly 2-0 through goals from Jesus Corona and Cesar Delgado.
