Werder Bremen snatched top spot in the German Bundesliga after crushing Freiburg 6-0 on Saturday, as young playmaker Mesut Ozil stole the show.
The 21-year-old Germany international set up four goals and scored one himself as the home side moved ahead of previous leaders Bayer Leverkusen on goal difference, with both teams on 26 points.
Unbeaten Leverkusen can regain their lead in Sunday's trip to ailing former champions Bayern Munich, while Hamburg can move up to 26 points with victory at home to Bochum.
But Bremen ensured bragging rights for at least 24 hours with a demolition job that left Freiburg just two points above the bottom three.
Daniel Jansen and Ozil both hit the woodwork before the latter crossed for striker Hugo Almeida to head home the 33rd-minute opener.
Marko Marin doubled the lead 10 minutes after halftime with a freekick, then Ozil teed up Almeida's second soon after before making it 4-0 on 67 as he collected a long ball and rounded goalkeeper Simon Pouplin.
Ozil was fouled in the box by Mohamadou Idrissou to allow Naldo to score from the spot six minutes later, and his cross from the left was converted by Markus Rosenberg on 82.
Schalke moved up to third place with a 2-0 win at home to Hannover, who were mourning the suicide of Germany goalkeeper Robert Enke.
There was a minute's silence before the game to commemorating his death, but it was Schalke who took the lead in the 69th minute as Jefferson Farfan headed home Rafinha's corner.
Jan Moravek sealed victory in the second minute of time added on after Enke's deputy Florian Fromlowitz blocked a shot by Lukas Schmitz, meaning Schalke ended a three-game winless run -- and extended their unbeaten run to seven -- to move onto 25 points.
Defending champions Wolfsburg lost 3-2 at home to Nuremberg, who moved out of the bottom three thanks to Peer Kluge's last-gasp winner three minutes into stoppage time.
Ten-man Stuttgart had to come from behind to earn a 1-1 draw at home to bottom club Hertha Berlin, as Zdravko Kuzmanovic's 82nd-minute effort canceled out the 49th-minute opener by Adrian Ramos.
However, the Serbian was sent off three minutes later for a second booking, but struggling Stuttgart held on.
Hoffenheim crushed Cologne 4-0 to move above Hamburg on goal difference, while Borussia Monchengladbach moved away from the relegation zone with a 2-1 victory at Eintracht Frankfurt.
Borussia Dortmund hosted Mainz in the late match.
