(CNN)"Let us build a fairyland for the people by dint of science!"
That's one of several new rallying cries for North Korea's people as the isolated regime prepares to mark the 70th anniversary of its founding this year with hundreds of new slogans aimed at encouraging patriotism.
Published by the state-controlled KCNA news agency, the slogans -- more than 300 in total -- were prepared by the Workers' Party of Korea and called for "painstaking efforts" to improve the livelihoods of citizens.
While many of the slogans were typical rallying calls to boost the country's economic and industrial output, others demonstrated Pyongyang's penchant for bizarre rhetoric.
Some were food-focused on a grand scale ...
"Let us turn ours into a country of mushrooms by making mushroom cultivation scientific, intensive and industrialized!"
"Create a new history of 'gold sea' by emulating the fishing sector of the People's Army!"
"Let this socialist country resound with the song of big fish haul and be permeated with the fragrant smell of fish and other seafoods!"
"Let the strong wind of fish farming blow across the country!"
Some were all about the kids ...
"Let the laughter of the children ring by increasing the production of their foodstuffs!"
"More stylish school uniforms and quality school things for our dear children!"
Others preached the need to keep the hermit kingdom shiny ...
"Speed up the work to make foodstuff factories fully automated, germ- and dust-free!"
"Keep streets, villages, mountains and rivers as neat and tidy as one's own courtyard!"
But they REALLY went to town on the trash talk ...
"Play sports games in an offensive way, the way the anti-Japanese guerrillas did!"
"Should the enemy dare to invade our country, annihilate them to the last man so that none of them will survive to sign the instrument of surrender!"
The slogans are likely to be visible everywhere across North Korea, from city billboards to the countryside.
In North Korea, even Kim Jong Un's birthday is an enigma
North Korea flaunts its 'cutting-edge' missiles
Pyongyang issues new threats to U.S. bases
CNN's Seoul bureau contributed to this report.
