Manny Pacquiao's trainer Freddie Roach has admitted Juan Manuel Marquez deserves a fourth fight against the Filipino after the pair's latest bout ended in another disputed points decision.
Pacquiao emerged victorious on Saturday night during their WBO welterweight clash in Las Vegas despite Marquez claiming he should have been crowned the winner.
The contest went down to the Nevada judges' scorecards with Dave Moretti scoring it 115-113, Robert Hoyle 114-114 and Glenn Trowbridge 116-112.
Pacquiao beats Marquez by majority decision
Their first bout in 2004 was scored a draw, while Pacquiao won a controversial split decision in the rematch four years later. Marquez is convinced he won both encounters.
Roach admitted the veteran proved a far more difficult opponent for Pacquiao than he expected and has conceded the 38-year-old is entitled to a fourth showdown, meaning Pacquiao's much-touted clash with Floyd Mayweather Jr. may have to wait.
"[Marquez] has given us problems three times now," Roach told reporters in Las Vegas. "I do think he deserves a rematch first.
"I thought Manny edged it. Manny hit him with some good shots, but nothing great. It was the kind of fight I don't want to do again but I think we have to.
"We just need to deal with these counter-punchers and I have to do my job better, I guess."
Roach had predicted the fight would be decided within six rounds but at the end of 12 rounds Marquez raised his arms, convinced he had done enough. He left the ring as soon as the verdict was revealed.
"Everybody knows what happened. I think I won this fight again. I repeat, what do I need to do for the judges to give me the fight?" Marquez told reporters.
Pacquiao insisted it was "very clear I won the fight" but said he would be willing to consider a fourth bout with Marquez: "Any time, any time. I am a fighter and my job is to fight in the ring."
But he also talked up the possibility of facing Mayweather -- the fight that boxing fans have long been clamoring for: "Well, let's get it on. Make the fight happen and let's give people a good fight," he said.
Roach also underlined his desire to see Pacquiao and Mayweather get into the ring, even though Marquez predicted the Filipino would struggle with the American's style.
"I hope that fight does happen," said Roach. "I think it would be the best fight in the world and I would love to see it."
