Less than three weeks after Young Jeezy turned himself in after allegedly beating up and threatening to kill his teenage son, the rapper has been arrested again.
Alpharetta, Georgia, police spokesman George Gordon confirmed the new arrest to CNN but did not provide additional details Tuesday night.
According to The Atlanta Journal Constitution, Jeezy -- whose real name is Jay Wayne Jenkins -- was arrested Tuesday afternoon and charged with obstruction for allegedly cursing at officers and refusing to provide his name.
Gordon told CNN affiliate WSB that police arrived at an Alpharetta townhouse because of a security alarm, but no one answered the door. Police saw Jeezy walking out the back of the townhouse, and the rapper allegedly said the townhouse was his girlfriend's home.
The Journal-Constitution said Jenkins refused to show his identification or give his name and instead cursed at officers, who then arrested him.
All this comes less than three weeks after Jeezy, 36, turned himself after the alleged incident with his teenage son.
His son told police the ordeal started at an Atlanta apartment in September 2012 after he sent a text message to his father.
According to the son, Jeezy "walked into the bathroom where he was and slammed his head against the sliding shower door," then "picked him up and threw him into the wall in the bedroom," a police report said.
When the teen tried to run downstairs and away, he was blocked by his father's bodyguard, the report said.
Jeezy then "pulled him back into the room, threw him on the bed, choked him and stated, 'I'll kill you," the son told police. He allegedly threw him against a wall and onto the floor before kicking him in the head.
"The juvenile stated his father stated to him 'I'll put a bullet in your head right now,'" the report said.
The boy's mother called police two days later when her son returned to her and she noticed bruising and scratches on his face, the police report said.
A grand jury warrant was issued for the rapper, who faces charges of battery, terroristic threats and false imprisonment.
Jeezy turned himself in to authorities January 3 and was released on a $45,000 bond, the Fulton County Sheriff's Office said.
CNN's Dave Alsup and Jane Caffrey contributed to this report.
