Elizabeth Taylor checked out of a Los Angeles hospital "sore, but intact," the actress said in an online message posted Friday evening.
Elizabeth Taylor posted on her Twitter account that she was grieving for her close friend Michael Jackson.
Taylor, 77, used her Twitter handle, @DameElizabeth, to tell fans that she was home, just as she did last week to announce she would go into a hospital to "to complete a test I was in the middle of."
Her publicist this week denied tabloid rumors that her hospitalization was brought on by her grief over the sudden death of her close friend Michael Jackson in June.
Taylor, in her latest tweets, addressed her sadness over Jackson's death:
"I'm home from the hospital sore, but intact. Of course I'm still grieving for Michael ... I always will."
"But as I said before I went into the hospital, 'I am a survivor,'" Taylor tweeted.
"I've had many tragedies in my life, but I guess they have all taught me something. I have to look at it that way."
"I have to be stronger and more appreciative of what I do have."
"I give love and I'm surrounded by love ... and I thank God for that."
Twitter is a social networking site that allows users to update what they are doing using 140 characters or less.
Taylor regularly posts short messages to her 116,000 Twitter followers through the account she opened earlier this year at the suggestion of her close friend, author and actress Kathy Ireland, publicist Dick Guttman said.
She posted emotional messages earlier this month to counter rumors about how she was dealing with the news of Jackson's death.
"Although my grief over Michael could not be any deeper, I am not on suicide watch as some of the cheaper 'rags' would have you believe," Taylor tweeted July 5.
A New York Post column published Tuesday quoted an unidentified source saying she was hospitalized because the "heart's gone out of her" after Jackson's death.
Taylor, who uses a wheelchair because of scoliosis, or abnormal curving of the spine, gave fans several days advance notice of her hospitalization.
"I wanted you my friends to know that I'm going into the hospital Wednesday or Thursday to complete a test I was in the middle of," she wrote.
Taylor said she declined an invitation to speak about Jackson at his public memorial because she "cannot be part of the public hoopla."
"I just don't believe that Michael would want me to share my grief with millions of others," Taylor tweeted. "How I feel is between us. Not a public event."
"I certainly don't want to become a part of it," she said. "I love him too much. ... And I cannot guarantee that I would be coherent to say a word."
