"Are African-American women really that different from women of other ethnicities?" That was the major question I wanted to ask Sophia Nelson, blogger and author of "Black Women Redefined."
Nelson first told great stories about her numerous firsts, although she made it clear that she doesn't define herself by what she does. Growing up, she wanted to be the first black female Supreme Court justice. She did become the first African-American female to be elected to the student body government at San Diego State University. And she went on to become a lawyer. Nelson has worked in Republican Party politics since her 20s as well. She can also count a U.S. Congress political party nomination among her many accomplishments.
And the author, journalist and blogger loves to write.
"Your blog is called Black Woman Redefined. What is that definition?" I asked.
It's not very good at all, she responded. She said too many people want to stereotype black women as angry and strident. But she said having images of Michelle Obama on a world stage is a game changer. She insisted that not everyone has to be like the first lady but that she is a great role model.
"Are black women really any different from any other women?" I ask.
"No, not at all," she said adamantly "And that is the real redefining thing that I want us to all take away from my book and anything that you see. Black women are women like everybody else."
She discussed having lost a job, bouncing back, not being viewed seriously in the workplace, women being viewed as angry and other issues in her book. She said every woman can relate to these struggles, no matter the ethnicity.
She quotes Sojourner Truth's "Ain't I a Woman?" speech while acknowledging how there are widely varying roles that women have chosen or served in.
After the taped interview, we continued to discuss Nelson's book. There were two single people on my crew and a married couple (my husband and me). She asked my husband about whether men really are intimidated by more accomplished women. He said a secure man would not be. She agreed, saying the research for her book showed that a man was not intimidated by accomplished black women; that men want someone with a great personality, who will treat them with respect and who will leave the baggage behind.
Nelson said, "I consider myself lucky to have achieved a lifelong dream of mine to publish my first book; a serious, generational nonfiction book on the lives of accomplished black women in America living in this new 'Age of Michelle Obama.' Stereotypes still define black women and, for that matter, most women in our culture. But as we all know, stereotypes aren't funny when they follow you everywhere."
We made small talk easily, laughing as though we had known each other for years. It was much later that I learned she was nervous, but felt at home once she sat down.
She later wrote, "It was like I had been waiting to do this my whole life. We often think that successful people have no fears. The truth is, successful people are quite intimate with fear -- they just face their fears and rise instead to meet their dreams."
