A woman's body was found in a river in Wales, police said Tuesday, the second death from severe flooding that has hit England and Wales since late last week.
The body of the woman, who was not named, was found in the River Usk near the village of Talybont, in mid Wales close to the coast, Brecon police said. Search teams had been looking for her since Sunday.
Talybont is about 250 miles south of Cockermouth, England, which has experienced some of the worst flooding seen in decades.
Friday, parts of Cockermouth were under several feet of water after heavy rainfall the night before. The town sits at the intersection of two rivers, the Cocker and the Derwent, both of which burst their banks and raged through the town.
By Tuesday, the flood waters had receded and the clean-up and damage assessment was well under way. But rain was still falling over the entire region, raising fears of further flooding in some areas.
Britain's Environment Agency said river levels across the county of Cumbria remained high but are unlikely to rise to levels seen last week.
Twenty road bridges in Cumbria were closed Tuesday, including seven that collapsed in the floods, Cumbria County Council spokesman Gareth Cosslett told CNN. Also shut were eight footbridges, which are an essential means of connecting residents in riverside towns.
In Workington, where Cumbria Police Constable Bill Barker died in the floods last week, the two sides of the town are cut off from each other because all bridges were either washed away or closed for safety reasons.
"We're hoping to get a temporary road bridge installed in Workington," Cosslett said, describing it as the council's first priority. "We haven't yet confirmed what we're going to do or when that's going to happen, but in all likelihood we're looking at a single-lane temporary bridge with traffic lights on either side."
Cosslett had no estimate on when the bridge could be complete, but he said such a project may take more than a month.
The worst weather Tuesday was in Cumbria, where the Met Office, the UK's weather service, predicted heavy and persistent rain and accumulations of 1.2 to 2.4 inches (30 to 60 millimeters).
Rain and strong gusts were also forecast for Wales on Tuesday, the Met Office said.
The rain was expected to move through the region by Wednesday, but more was set to return by Thursday, according to Met Office forecasts.
Sixty-eight flood watches and warnings were in place across England and Wales on Wednesday, the Environment Agency said.
