The family of Jules Bianchi, the Formula One racing driver who was critically injured at Sunday's Japanese Grand Prix, have revealed that he is suffering from a "diffuse axonal injury."
It is a potentially devastating type of brain injury which causes widespread tearing of nerve fibers across the whole of the brain, according to the UK brain injury charity, Headway.
The 25-year-old Marussia driver remains in a critical but stable state, his family said in a statement released via the F1 team's official Facebook page.
"Jules remains in the Intensive Care Unit of the Mie General Medical Center in Yokkaichi. He has suffered a diffuse axonal injury and is in a critical but stable condition," the statement said.
"The medical professionals at the hospital are providing the very best treatment and care and we are grateful for everything they have done for Jules since his accident."
The Frenchman sustained his injuries after coming off the track and colliding with a recovery vehicle that was removing Adrian Sutil's Sauber car -- the German driver had skidded off the track at turn seven moments earlier in a rain-affected race.
"This is a very difficult time for our family, but the messages of support and affection for Jules from all over the world have been a source of great comfort to us. We would like to express our sincere appreciation," the statement said.
"We are also grateful for the presence of Professor Gerard Saillant, President of the FIA Medical Commission, and Professor Alessandro Frati, Neurosurgeon of the University of Rome La Sapienza, who has travelled to Japan at the request of Scuderia Ferrari.
"They arrived at the hospital today and met with the medical personnel responsible for Jules' treatment, in order to be fully informed of his clinical status so that they are able to advise the family.
"The hospital will continue to monitor and treat Jules and further medical updates will be provided when appropriate."
Read more: Marussia request patience on Bianchi condition
Read more: Bianchi suffers 'severe head injury'
