(The Frisky) -- We were worried that Sandra Bullock was going to disappear out there in the Texas flatlands and take a Hollywood hiatus for good. Thank goodness we were wrong.
The word is that she may be coming out of hiding to reunite with her costar from "The Proposal," Ryan Reynolds, for a new action comedy called "Most Wanted." Welcome back, rom-com queen!
Inspired by this quirky, funny re-coupling, here are nine more classic and endearing onscreen couples that we want to see get back together on the big screen.
The Frisky: 8 celebrity dudes describe their dream women
1. There is no magic like the magic of Rachel McAdams and Ryan Gosling in "The Notebook." We need them back together ASAP ... on and off screen.
2. Kate Winslet and Leo DiCaprio have done a couple of brilliant collaborations, but what about Kate's chemistry with Jim Carrey in "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind?" We can't forget it.
The Frisky: 6 celeb couples dish on their (cheap!) first dates
3. We wish that Johnny Depp and Winona Rider could put all the broken engagement and shoplifting drama behind them and give us another taste of that Burton-style bad romance, à la "Edward Scissorhands."
4. It's been way too long since Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau were so "money" together in "Swingers."
The Frisky: Is Julia Roberts' "Eat, Pray, Love" the most boring movie poster ever?
5. I don't think it's too late for Diane Keaton and Woody Allen to bring back some of their neurotic, onscreen charm from "Annie Hall" and "Manhattan."
6. Do Matt Damon and Ben Affleck in "Good Will Hunting" count as a couple? If so, let's try it again, shall we?
The Frisky: Team Bella? What the "Twilight" credit cards looks like
7. We're hoping for another movie starring Zooey Deschanel and Joseph Gordon-Levitt, only this time they end up together, unlike in "500 Days of Summer."
8. Scarlett Johansson and Bill Murray's chemistry was never "Lost in Translation" for us. Let's do part deux!
9. We need to see Lloyd Dobbler (aka John Cusack) and Diane Court (aka Ione Skye) from "Say Anything" all grown-up and back onscreen.
The Frisky: Is "Bachelorette" Ali really single?
TM & © 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
