Dereck Chisora has been handed an indefinite ban by the World Boxing Council (WBC) after a post-fight scuffle with David Haye in which he threatened to "shoot" his fellow British heavyweight.
Chisora also threatened to "burn" former WBA champion Haye after they traded blows in a press conference following this month's defeat to WBC champion Vitali Klitschko.
The 28-year-old slapped Klitschko at the weigh-in before their bout in Munich, and spat water in the face of Vitali's brother Wladimir -- the WBA, IBF, WBO and IBO heavyweight champion -- in the moments leading up to the fight.
Chisora's actions prompted the WBC to strip him of his ranking and forbid him to fight for one of its titles until he completes an anger management course.
Chisora threatens to shoot Haye in brawl following Klitschko defeat
WBC president Jose Sulaiman said Chisora's conduct was some of the "worst behavior ever by a professional boxer" and confirmed the body would also be fining him.
"Dereck Chisora is not going to tarnish the sport for those born in the humblest beds, who become sports heroes of the world to live a life of dignity and pride," he said in a statement.
"Boxers are gentlemen and show to the world an example of honor and fair play when after a tremendous battle they go to the center of the ring to pay respect to each other.
"The WBC is imposing a serious fine to be finally determined after the hearing to be held under the supervision of our counsel representative attorney Stephen Beverly.
Klitschko defends WBC title with points win over Chisora
"The WBC will also take off from the WBC rankings the name of Dereck Chisora and declare an indefinite suspension against fighting again for a WBC title, while demanding Chisora to take an anger management medical treatment after which his suspension will be reconsidered."
Both Klitschko brothers condemned Chisora's conduct but praised him for his valiant showing in the ring, when he took Vitali the full 12 rounds in Germany.
Chisora is also facing sanctions from the British Boxing Board of Control at a meeting in March. He was arrested by German police but released without charge after his scuffle with Haye.
Haye retired from the sport after losing to Wladimir in Germany last year but appeared at the press conference that followed Chisora's defeat to challenge Vitali to a contest.
As Haye is officially still in retirement, the British Boxing Board of Control can't bring sanctions against him.
Chisora's promoter Frank Warren said the WBC should have given the fighter a chance to defend himself at a hearing.
"There are a lot of things that happened behind the scenes that need to be taken into account," Warren said in quotes reported by the UK Press Association. "For the WBC to do this is outrageous.
"What happened outside the ring I'm not condoning, but you cannot do this to anybody without letting them have a hearing. Everybody's entitled to a fair hearing, whatever you think of them, whatever you've seen.
"There is a procedure which should take place and then determine whether and if there is a punishment necessary.
"A number of mobile cameras were handed in to the police so they could examine them for evidence. They took copies of all the different media's films regarding the incident that happened outside the ring and did not charge Dereck Chisora."
