(CNN)  -- Roger Federer made it five straight wins in a row as he reached the semifinals of the French Open Tuesday at the expense of home favorite Gael Monfils.
The third seed clinched a 6-4 6-3 7-6 victory on his third match point after two hours and 34 minutes on Court Philippe Chatrier.
It set up a mouthwatering semifinal clash with second seed Novak Djokovic, who received a quarterfinal bye when his Italian opponent Fabio Fognini pulled out with a thigh muscle injury.
16-time grand slam champion Federer has enjoyed an untroubled passage to his sixth French Open semifinal at Roland Garros and apart from falling an early break of service down was rarely extended by Monfils.
Federer recovered to level before clinching the opener and quickly broke twice to take command in the second.
Monfils retrieved one of the breaks but Federer served out at 5-3 to take a comfortable two-set lead.
Monfils had won their last meeting but never looked capable of repeating the feat despite offering stiff resistance in the third set where he hit back to level after falling behind again.
But in the tiebreak Federer raced into a big lead to secure five match points and wrapped it up with a forehand down the line.
A far stiffer test awaits the Swiss ace Friday with Djokovic unbeaten this year and set to be crowned as new world number one if he can beat Federer.
"Playing a semi-final here at Roland Garros is a great moment and playing such a great player is what we train for," Federer said in a court side interview after beating Monfils.
In other men's action Tuesday, Britain's Andy Murray conjured up another recovery act to beat Victor Troicki of Serbia to earn his place in the quarterfinals.
The match was held over from Monday night at two sets all and fourth seed Murray fell 5-2 down in the decider before mounting a stirring recovery.
He eventually closed out a 4-6 4-6 6-3 6-2 7-5 victory and will next play Argentina's Juan Ignacio Chela.
Murray beat him at Roland Garros in both 2009 and 2010 but has been battling an ankle sprain from an earlier match.
"The problem is if you go over on the ankle again," Murray told AFP.
"That's the danger because obviously it's weak just now... It's one thing I have to be careful with. Going over on it again would be an issue."
Top seed Rafael Nadal plays Robin Soderling in the other quarterfinal match Wednesday.
