A man who'd been grazed with a bullet helped subdue a gunman. An intern tended to the wounded congresswoman whose staff he'd joined just days before. A woman put an extra ammunition clip out of the gunman's reach, and a doctor who'd witnessed the shooting performed CPR on the injured.
CNN Heroes salutes the following people who responded to Saturday's shooting at a political event outside a supermarket in Tucson, Arizona -- a shooting that killed six people and wounded 14 others, including U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords -- with acts of courage.
Retired Army Col. Bill Badger and Roger Salzgeber
Badger and Salzgeber were two of the men who helped subdue the gunman during a pause in the shooting, according to witnesses.
Badger, 74, was at the event to meet Giffords. He hit the ground when the shooting started and felt a sting on the back of his head -- he'd been grazed by a bullet. When the shooting stopped, Badger stood up and found the shooter was right in front of him, he said.
"One other individual that was there to meet with the congresswoman took one of the chairs that they had been sitting on, folded it, and hit (the gunman) ... right on the shoulders," Badger told CNN's "The Situation Room" on Monday. It's not clear who hit the gunman with the chair.
Badger, bleeding from his wound, grabbed the suspect's left wrist, "and with my right hand I hit him right between the shoulder blades, and he was going down," Badger said. When the suspect was on the ground, another person took a gun away from him, Badger said.
Salzgeber helped to subdue the gunman, according to media reports, but his exact role isn't clear. Various people kept the gunman down for a few minutes until authorities arrived.
Badger said the real hero is "the individual that picked up the chair and hit (the gunman), and the other individual who helped me take this individual down to the ground."
A man authorities accuse of being the gunman, Jared Lee Loughner, was arrested and has been charged in federal court in connection with the shooting. Badger was treated for the bullet graze and released.
Joe Zamudio
Zamudio was one of the people who helped keep the suspect pinned to the ground after he had been taken down.
Zamudio was inside a nearby Walgreens when he heard the gunfire. He said he ran outside and saw people wrestling with the suspect.
"I laid on him and held him down, and made sure the gun was down," he said.
Patricia Maisch
Maisch, 61, is credited with taking an ammunition clip from the suspect after he was wrestled to the ground.
Maisch said that she dropped to the ground when the shooting started. She was about 20 feet from Giffords, who was shot in the head.
When the suspect was sent to the ground, the men subduing him shouted for others to get the gun and a clip that had fallen to the ground. The suspect had pulled the clip out of his pocket, Maisch said.
"I was able to kneel up and was able to take the magazine ... before he did," Maisch said.
Maisch then knelt on the suspect's knees a while before realizing that Badger needed help with his wound.
"So I asked another gentleman to kneel on (the suspect's) legs. I went in and got some towels from Safeway and made a compress for Bill and held it on his head until the police came," she said.
Daniel Hernandez
Hernandez, a 20-year-old University of Arizona junior, had just started as an intern with Giffords' staff that week. He initially used his bare hands to stop blood gushing from Giffords' head after she was shot.
Hernandez, who trained as a certified nursing assistant, lifted her head to make it easier for her to breathe. Eventually workers from the nearby Safeway supermarket arrived with clean smocks to cover Giffords' wound. Hernandez continued to apply pressure to the wound.
"My main thing was just to keep her as alert as possible and just keep trying to interact with her. ... The entire time I was with the congresswoman, she was still responding," Hernandez said. "She was obviously in a lot of pain, so I let her know to squeeze my hand as hard as she needed to."
After an ambulance arrived, Hernandez rode with her to the hospital.
"People have been referring to me as a hero. I don't think that I am. I think the people who are heroes are people like Gabby, who have dedicated their lives to public service," he said. "It just makes me happy to know that I could help her in any way that I could."
Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer acknowledged Hernandez in a speech before state lawmakers on Monday, saying he "showed no fear in the face of gunfire."
"His quick action in going to Gabby Giffords' aid likely saved her life," Brewer said.
Dr. Steven Rayle
Rayle was one of the people who helped hold the suspect down after the takedown. He also administered CPR to some of the wounded.
Rayle said he was at the event to meet Giffords at the urging of a friend. He said he was standing at the side of Giffords' table when the shooting started.
"I looked up just as the gunman was firing the shot at Congresswoman Giffords. ... To be honest I froze for just a second, not quite understanding what was going on. He continued to fire sort of rapidly, really at point blank range," Rayle said .
After the suspect was brought down, Rayle helped to restrain him. But the physician soon afterward started tending to the shooting victims.
"In treating gunshot wound victims, it's basically stopping the hemorrhage, and getting EMS there as soon as possible. That's basically the treatment; there's not much else you can do," Rayle said . "(For) those who had actually stopped breathing or had no pulse, CPR was initiated."
CNN's Wolf Blitzer, Ted Rowlands, Jessica Yellin, Kiran Chetry, Jason Hanna and The CNN Wire contributed to this report.
