A wonder goal from Arjen Robben helped Bayern Munich snatch a 3-2 away victory over Werder Bremen which fired them back to the top of the German Bundesliga table for at least 24 hours.
The Holland international winger lashed home a stunning second-half free-kick to give Louis van Gaal's side all three points in an enthralling encounter at the Weserstadion on Saturday.
Bayern had fallen behind to a goal from Werder midfielder Aaron Hunt, who neatly slotted home from close range in the 10th minute, before they equalized through Thomas Mueller 15 minutes later after he had been set up by Bastian Schweinsteiger.
Ivica Olic latched on to Philipp Lahm's cross in the 35th minute to put Bayern ahead as welcomed back France international Franck Ribery, who replaced Olic after halftime to make his first appearance for the Munich club since October having recovered from a knee injury.
Werder, though, responded in the 75th minute when Portugal striker Hugo Almeida slotted home but they were on level terms for a matter of three minutes as Robben bent a superb free-kick past goalkeeper Tim Wiese and into the net.
Coach van Gaal felt Bayern could have won by more goals as they went a point clear of Bayer Leverkusen who will return to the summit with a draw or better against Hoffenheim on Sunday.
"It's unbelievable we've only won 3-2. We should have won by a lot more. We've played well but missed far too many chances, which is a shame," van Gaal told the club's Web site.
"It meant the bench was a stressful place right to the end. But it's never easy against Werder Bremen."
Elsewhere, Schalke missed a chance to keep pace with the leaders as they conceded a 90th-minute equalizer from Bochum striker Stanislav Sestak to draw 2-2 having thrown away a two-goal lead following strikes from Vicente Sanchez and Kevin Kuranyi.
Borussia Dortmund are now only three points behind Bayern after they claimed a narrow 1-0 win over fellow challengers Hamburg thanks to Nelson Valdez's goal while Nuremberg drew 1-1 at Eintracht Frankfurt.
Elsewhere, Hertha Berlin were held 0-0 at home by Borussia Moenchengladbach and new Hanover boss Mirko Slomka got off to a losing start when his side were beaten 1-0 at mid-table Mainz while Stuttgart edged a 1-0 away win over Freiburg on Friday night.
