Miley Cyrus. Robin Thicke. Blake Shelton. New Year's Eve 2013 on TV looked a lot like the year itself.
Celebs were all over TV ringing in 2014 with performances. It wasn't a "Wrecking Ball," but Cyrus sang before the ball dropped on "Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve with Ryan Seacrest " on ABC. Clad in a gold sequined outfit and a furry coat, Cyrus joked that "This is the most clothes I've been in in 2013."
She was joined on the show with Thicke, who also performed, as well as several other musical acts including Icona Pop and Macklemore and Ryan Lewis. "The View's" Jenny McCarthy co-hosted with Seacrest on the show that after more than 40 years has been a New Year's Eve institution.
Earlier Seacrest joked that he'd be watching Cyrus and her crazy antics.
"This is a ball she cannot touch," Seacrest said. "This one she cannot. She's not allowed to. But she can be standing under it when it goes down, when it drops."
Over on NBC, "The Voice" judge Blake Shelton teamed up with that show's host, Carson Daly, for "New Year's Eve With Carson Daly." Shelton was one of the performers joining a roster that included "American Idol" judge Mariah Carey.
CNN once again featured the antics of Anderson Cooper and comedienne Kathy Griffin, live from Times Square in New York City.
Before the festivities, Griffin had sent Cooper a topless pic of herself, threatening to also appear that way on the show. While that didn't come to pass, she offered plenty of ribbing of her co-host, including teasing Cooper that Ryan Seacrest was so rich "He could come up here and purchase you right now."
"You do realize you'll never live up to your mother, right?" Griffin told Cooper, referring to his mother, Gloria Vanderbilt. "I just need to say that."
Cooper got off a few zingers of his own, telling Griffin, "I roll deep. I know Mackelmore."
Other networks that also offered programming to ring out 2013 included the Mario Lopez-hosted "New Year's Eve Live" on Fox where rapper J.Cole and Panic! At the Disco performed and "BET: 106 & Party: New Year's Eve 2013" which featured Trey Songz and ASAP Rocky.
