U.S. women's soccer star Hope Solo has issued an apology after she was accused of assaulting two of her relatives at a Seattle home last weekend.
"I would like to apologize to my fans, teammates, coaches, marketing partners and the entire US Soccer and Seattle Reign FC communities for my involvement in a highly unfortunate incident this past weekend," Solo said in a post on her Facebook page Thursday.
Solo, the national team goalkeeper and a two-time Olympic gold-medal winner, entered a not-guilty plea in court Monday. She faces two counts of fourth-degree domestic violence assault.
The court released Solo, 32, on the conditions that she avoid contact with her half-sister and a 17-year-old nephew, both of whom she is accused of assaulting, and that she not drink alcohol. A pretrial hearing was set for August 11.
"I understand that, as a public figure, I am held to a higher standard of conduct," she said Thursday. "I take seriously my responsibilities as a role model and sincerely apologize to everyone I have disappointed."
'Intoxicated and upset'
Police have said Solo assaulted her relatives early Saturday. Officers responded to a 911 call in which a male reported that a woman would not stop "hitting people" or leave the house, a police statement said.
At the home, officers heard a disturbance. Inside, Solo appeared "intoxicated and upset," according to police.
Police said Solo's nephew and sister had visible injuries. After interviewing witnesses, police determined that Solo was the "primary aggressor and had instigated the assault," the statement said.
Solo said in her statement Thursday that she was "confident in the legal process and believe my name will be cleared."
Her attorney has denied that Solo committed any crime, saying she was assaulted and injured in the incident.
"I love my family dearly," Solo said. "We, like all families, have our challenges but my sincere hope is that we are able to resolve this situation as a family. Adversity has always made us stronger and I know this situation will be no different."
She said she looked forward "to getting back on the field where I belong with both Seattle Reign FC and the US Women's National Team."
