(CNN Student News ) -- April 14, 2014
This week begins with a report on wildfires in Chile and an update on an Ebola outbreak in West Africa. We take a look at how journalists prepare to work in areas hit by disease or disaster, and we explore the religious significance of Palm Sunday and Passover. Finally, we examine technology that's intended to protect ice hockey players from head injuries.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What challenges might confront journalists who are covering the outbreak of a deadly disease?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Ebola
2. pathogens
3. concussion
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What kind of disaster is currently confronting part of Chile? What weather condition has made it worse? How has this disaster impacted lives and property? What is the significance of the president declaring a state of emergency?
2. Where do scientists think Ebola comes from? What is its mortality rate? How long is its incubation period? How is the virus spread? What are the initial symptoms of Ebola? What symptoms develop as the disease progresses?
3. How is Dr. Gupta protecting himself as he travels to the site of an Ebola outbreak? What are some of the things in Dr. Gupta's "go bag"? What specific items is he carrying as precautions against Ebola? According to the video, what is the key to safety for journalists who are traveling into risky situations?
4. What separate holy days are being observed by Christians and Jews this week? What does each observance commemorate?
5. What conditions contribute to the occurrence of concussions in ice hockey? How does a concussion occur? How do devices like Checklight attempt to address the problem of concussions in this sport? How does the device work? What questions do researchers who are testing this product and others have about these devices?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do we know about the Ebola outbreak in Guinea? Why do you think that a journalist might want to tell this story in spite of the risks to his or her own health? Do you think it is important to learn about diseases that are occurring in other countries? Why or why not?
2. Why do you think that athletes in some sports tend to "tough it out" rather than bench themselves when facing injuries? Why might this mentality be especially dangerous for an athlete who suffers a concussion? What, if anything, can be done to help athletes stay focused on both the game and their own health?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
