A San Francisco Giants fan who threw a banana that landed near Baltimore Orioles centerfielder Adam Jones during a weekend game said the incident was not racially motivated, but an act of frustration at his team's poor performance.
Alexander Poulides told the San Jose Mercury News that he's embarrassed and shocked, but most of all apologetic for his "indiscretion."
Poulides said he was unaware of the uproar until Monday morning when he turned on the news. His heart sank when heard the outcry over an unidentified Giants fan who threw a banana at Jones, who is African-American.
"Oh, my God,'' Poulides said. "I threw a banana on my way out."
That's when he contacted the newspaper to claim responsibility.
"I'm embarrassed and shocked by the outcome,'' he said. "In hindsight, I wish I didn't do it and I apologize. I'm very sorry."
Poulides grabbed the banana from a catering cart, tossing it on the field, he said. The fruit became a projectile of disgust during the ninth inning of a blowout loss on Sunday to the Orioles at AT&T Park.
The team's front office said it's continuing to investigate.
"The Giants have a zero tolerance policy against this type of behavior, which results in immediate ejection from the ballpark," a statement from the team said. "While we have been investigating the matter since we learned of the situation, unfortunately we have been unable to identify the person responsible.
"We would like to extend our sincerest apologies to Adam and the entire Orioles organization for this unfortunate incident.
"The inappropriate actions of this individual in no way reflect the values of our organization and our fans."
Jones took to his official Twitter account to express his displeasure.
"I want to thank whatever (expletive) threw that banana towards my direction in CF in the last inning," he posted. "Way to show ur class u jackass."
MLB senior vice president of public relations Patrick Courtney told CNN Sports on Monday: "We are looking into this situation."
The Orioles overcame a two-run deficit to score 10 unanswered runs in the 10-2 victory over last season's World Series champs.
Jones hit a three-run homer at the top of the ninth inning to help clinch the victory.
Man charged in banana throwing incident at NHL game
CNN Sports contributed to this report
