An agreement has been reached with San Diego Mayor Bob Filner after three days of mediation, the city attorney told reporters Wednesday.
City Attorney Jan Goldsmith said details of the proposed deal would remain confidential until they are presented to the City Council in a private meeting Friday at 1 p.m. (4 p.m. ET).
Immediately after the meeting, a report may be out at a public council meeting, Goldsmith said.
"Any rumors you hear about the proposal you may deem to be untrue because the people standing here are the ones who know of it and we have all committed ... that we will maintain the confidentiality of the mediation," he said while flanked by individuals involved in the effort.
Asked about Filner's response to the agreement, his attorney declined to comment.
Filner has been in mediation talks on the heels of undergoing intensive two-week behavioral therapy amid multiple allegations that paint him as a serial perpetrator of sexual harassment.
Navarrette: Will 'Mayor Naughty' please step down
So far, 18 women have come forward to say that Filner acted inappropriately, with accusations ranging from one woman's claim that the mayor gave her "tush a pat," to another woman's assertion that he "put me in what I guess now is the famous headlock."
The embattled mayor has steadfastly resisted efforts to force him out of office in recent weeks.
Filner's office has not responded to multiple CNN requests for comment.
Last month, he acknowledged he "failed to fully respect the women who work for me and with me" and that he was "embarrassed" by his actions. But he also said he will be vindicated by "a full presentation of the facts" and that he would not step down.
But he might be considering resignation anyway.
CNN affiliate KGTV, citing anonymous sources, reported that the mediation was "designed to include a review of a potential resignation."
Though the city chief of staff changed the locks on Filner's office during his time away, it was to preserve evidence rather than to keep him out, the city attorney's office has said.
Filner, 70, was elected mayor in 2012 after 20 years in Congress.
His accusers range from a singer at a campaign fundraiser to his former communications director, who called him unfit for office.
Volunteers hit the streets of San Diego over the weekend to begin collecting signatures for a recall. They need more than 101,000 signatures by September 26.
Filner has rebuffed calls to resign from all nine City Council members and from fellow Democrats, including California's two U.S. senators.
His supporters, who include some labor unions and Latinos, say Filner is being denied due process, and the recall effort is orchestrated by those who oppose his political agenda.
CNN's Kyung Lah, Josh Levs, Ed Payne and Dana Ford contributed to this report.
