On a bad day at work, during an I-can't-take-it-any-more moment, we've probably fantasized about outlandish ways to quit our jobs.   This week, Steven Slater, a flight attendant for JetBlue Airways, made a dramatic job exit: cursing and sliding down the plane's emergency chute with beer in his hand.   Slater's job-quitting performance has been hailed as heroic by some people. CNN asked readers and iReporters to share their stories about quitting in a dramatic, and oftentimes unprofessional, way.
Kathi Cordsen, a 58-year-old in Fullerton, California, who shared her story on CNN's iReport, says she understood Slater's agony. She thought about walking out of the pharmacy where her hours had been cut after she worked there for three years. In her imaginary world, she would have told her "disorganized" boss to "shove it."
In reality, she left a note on the back of a receipt that read, "Saturday is my last day." She politely said goodbye but was satisfied that the store had only about five days to scramble to find her replacement.
"After I wrote the note, I felt relieved," Cordsen said. "There is an end to this, and I don't have to stress out anymore."
Share your fantasy "I quit" story
Another iReporter, dg56789, shared a story about quitting a bus driving job after getting into an argument with a teacher who demanded that a child be seated contrary to the rules. The driver handed the teacher the keys before walking off and telling the teacher to drive it herself.
CNN commenter "Becca" told a story that involved things flying through the air at the Brooklyn shoe store where she had been working.
She said she and another employee had an argument, and he threw at ladder at her. She threw a pair of stilettos at him and then knocked down a display of sandals as she left the building, cursing at everyone.
Career experts usually advise that quitting a job be done with consideration and professionalism. Supervisors should be notified in advance, typically at least two weeks before the last day. Employees attempting to leave should stay on top of responsibilities and avoid insulting co-workers.
"Don't let your emotions overtake your logic, because the business world is a logical world," said Meg Montford, a career coach of based in Kansas City, Missouri. "Emotions can get the best of us. Sometimes, if we express them inappropriately, we may regret it later."  Careermag.com, a publication offering career information, advised impatient quitters to avoid burning bridges. The employee should think about the future, such as how former managers and co-workers may be contacted when you apply for other jobs.
Make a graceful online exit from a job
But employers should still be honest about their problems with the company and the workplace when they leave, the site said.
Sometimes -- as seen in Slater's case -- frustrations with work can spiral out of control before an employee can carefully plot his or her exit. CNN commenter "Vicki" could relate to the flight attendant's work troubles.
She recalled working as a customer service manager at Wal-Mart during Christmas and dealing with an angry customer. She finally yelled at the customer while walking out of the job.
"Well, I wasn't real proud that I handled that situation that way but I can relate on how things can build up to a point where you just can't handle it," she said.
How not to enrage your flight attendant
Another CNN commenter, "Doug H," shared his own last straw. While working as a sexton at a local cemetery, he was asked to dig a plot for a child. He had dug graves for adults without any hesitation, but the idea of digging for a child made him uneasy.
He refused to do it, which caused the cemetery manager to yell.
Doug says he simply "turned around and walked away."
A CNN commenter called "Spongebob" worked at a company that trains military pilots. After six years, sick of the department's supervisors, he detailed his frustrations to them and walked out.
Luckily, he received a promotion to another site within the company.
CNN commenter "Charlie," who was a waiter in New York, gave a theatrical exit. While working a double shift, he became engaged in a fight with a host, who was assigning too many tables for him to handle.
"Charlie" erupted, slamming plates against the wall, throwing his apron on the floor and cursing at the host before heading out the door.
"Needless to say, I'm not welcome in that place anymore," he wrote. "But good riddance."
