Two-time Cincinnati champion Andy Roddick is out of the Western and Southern Open after a 6-7 (7-5) 7-5 6-1 first-round defeat to Philipp Kohlschreiber.
Roddick, seeded ninth for the hard court tournament, was one set and a break of serve up on his German opponent, but double faults from the American at decisive moments handed momentum to world number 47 Kohlschreiber.
It got worse for 2003 U.S. Open winner Roddick in the final set, when he was handed a point penalty for hitting the ball into the stands at the Lindner Family Tennis Center having previously smashed his racquet.
"For two sets tonight I actually hit the ball well considering," Roddick, 28, told the ATP Tour's official web site. "I hit the ball a lot better than I thought I would, if I'm being totally candid.
"I probably will wake up tomorrow morning feeling a little bit better about where I'm at than I did when I woke up this morning."
Kohlschreiber will face Spaniard Feliciano Lopez in the next round, after the 29-year-old defeated his compatriot Juan Carlos Ferrero 4-6 6-3 6-4.
American wildcard Ryan Harrison set up a clash with world number one Novak Djokovic, who is top seed for the tournament and received a bye in the first round, by beating Argentina's Juan Ignacio Chela 6-3 6-3.
Also due to enter the competition in second round are world number two Rafael Nadal, 16-time grand slam winner Roger Federer, American number one Mardy Fish and Britain's Andy Murray.
In the women's draw, Wimbledon semifinalist Sabine Lisicki was knocked out in the first round by Israeli Shahar Peer.
The 24-year-old Peer was rewarded for her 6-4 7-6 (7-4) success with a match against third seed Victoria Azarenka.
Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova is also safely through after a 6-3 6-4 win over American veteran Jill Craybas.
German ninth seed Andrea Petkovic was one set down and 2-0 behind to Jarmila Gajdosova of Australia before registering a 5-7 7-6 (7-5) 6-2 victory.
Former world number one Ana Ivanovic is also into the second round, the Serb defeated American qualifier Alexa Glatch 6-0 6-2.
