Police were on Tuesday investigating the death of model and TV personality Peaches Geldof, the 25-year-old daughter of Irish musician and Live Aid organizer Bob Geldof and TV presenter Paula Yates.
Geldof, who was just 11 when her mother died, was found at her home in Wrotham, Kent, southeast of London, on Monday. Officers were called "following a report of concern for the welfare of a woman," a force spokesman told the Press Association.
In a statement Kent police said that a post-mortem examination would be carried out in the next few days.
"At this stage, the death is being treated as an unexplained and sudden death," Kent police said. "Officers are working to establish the circumstances around the death."
Bob Geldof released a statement saying his family is "beyond pain."
"She was the wildest, funniest, cleverest, wittiest and the most bonkers of all of us," the statement reads. "Writing 'was' destroys me afresh.
"What a beautiful child. How is this possible that we will not see her again? How is that bearable? We loved her and will cherish her forever."
The mother of two was a prolific poster on Twitter. Her last message Sunday included a photo of her as a child with her mother, captioned "Me and my mum."
"My beloved wife Peaches was adored by myself and her two sons Astala and Phaedra and I shall bring them up with their mother in their hearts every day," husband Tom Cohen said in a statement. "We shall love her forever."
She hosted the show "OMG! Totally Peaches" on Britain's ITV channel starting in 2011. The live show was based on Geldof and a panel helping viewers find solutions to their problems.
A host of celebrities paid tribute. TV mogul Simon Cowell tweeted his condolences: "The few times I met Peaches she was a sweet, funny warm person. Much love to her family she has left behind."
CNN presenter Myleene Klass said: "The news of beautiful Peaches is utterly devastating, God bless her babies. RIP mama xxx."
Geldof was the second daughter of Yates, who rose to fame in the 1980s as presenter of music show "The Tube." She died from an heroin overdose in 2000, aged 41.
Yates had divorced Boomtown Rats singer Bob Geldof in 1996 after starting a relationship with INXS frontman Michael Hutchence.
But the following year Hutchence committed suicide in a hotel room in Sydney, Australia, and in 1998 Yates lost custody of the three daughters she had with Geldof -- Peaches, Pixie and Fifi. Bob Geldof later adopted Yates and Hutchence's daughter Heavenly Hiraani Tiger Lily.
Peaches Geldof married rock musician Max Drummey but split in 2009 after just six months. She married Cohen, the lead singer of rock band SCUM in 2012.
People we lost in 2014
CNN's Philip Taylor contributed to this report.
