With 33 consecutive wins and six straight titles in 2011, Novak Djokovic is closing in on his lifetime goal.
The Serbian's explosive start to the new tennis season has seen him battle and bruise two of the game's modern greats and former untouchables in Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer.
His run in the current campaign has seen him beat both Federer and Nadal three times each -- consigning the Spaniard to his first clay-court defeat in nearly two years in Madrid -- en route to entering the top 10 of all-time ATP winning streaks.
His win at the Australian Open and present hot streak finds him ranked second in the world, but Djokovic has his sights firmly focused on achieving a long-held goal.
If he wins his seventh crown at the Rome Masters ahead of his 24th birthday on May 22, and No. 1 Nadal fails to make the semifinals, Djokovic will proudly sit atop the rankings for the first time in his career.
He told CNN's Open Court show: "It is my lifetime goal, my highest ambition, my dream as well, but I'm still 23, 24 this year. I still believe that I can play for many more years to come in this high level in the ATP Tour.
"If I really want to be one of the candidates for the top spot, I have to play consistently well throughout the whole year, because that is what Rafa and Roger will do and that's what they have been doing the last five years, winning major events, being at least in the semis for every major event.
"If I want to compete with them and keep up with them, I will have to do the same at least."
If Djokovic's rise to prominence in the game from 2005 onwards was steady, his leap into Nadal and Federer's place at the top table of tennis has been dramatic.
He secured his first major title back in 2008 at the Australian Open, and solidified his position as world number three, but the glut of grand slam titles many had predicted did not materialize.
He reached the quarterfinals, or better, in each of 2010's four slams and again finished the year third behind Nadal and Federer, but after leading Serbia to a landmark Davis Cup triumph over France in December, Djokovic hasn't looked back.
His 33 wins have included three final defeats of Nadal, the most notable coming in the recent Madrid Masters, when Djokovic inflicted the Spaniard's first reverse on clay in 38 matches.
So, what is the secret to his blistering start in 2011?
"Everything kind of came together," he told CNN anchor Pedro Pinto. "Everybody is wondering what the secret is -- there is no secret.
"I had the team of people I've had for the last two or three years, it just took time for me to get all the things right and kind of have this necessary life experience in tennis."
Djokovic's imperious form has sent confidence levels soaring, and he attributes his success to a solid mental approach.
"There is this saying that players use, that when you're so confident that the tennis ball looks like a watermelon, so it probably is the case with me in the last couple of months," he explained.
"I am playing the best tennis of my life and I'm on an incredible run. Did I expect that? No, definitely not, but I am trying to keep up with this momentum and trying to keep up with this high level of performance as much as I can."
Despite his mesmerizing run during the first five months of the season, Djokovic insists Nadal is still favorite to retain his French Open crown next month and make it six wins in seven years.
And while the Serb says he won't retain his winning streak throughout the entire year, he does admit he is going into the tournament a transformed man.
"I don't expect myself to not lose a match throughout the whole year, but I am confident that I am a different player from last year," he said.
"I'm emotionally stable, I'm very confident, I am fast on the court and I am just consistent."
