(CNN)  -- Togo international Emmanuel Adebayor scored a timely hat-trick as Manchester City all but guaranteed their passage into the knockout stage of the Europa League with a 3-1 win over Lech Poznan at Eastlands.
It was the first goals of the season for Adebayor and a reminder of his talents to manager Roberto Mancini with City heavily linked with a move for Manchester United's star striker Wayne Rooney in the January transfer window.
Rooney would be reunited with Carlos Tevez should he choose to join United's city rivals, the Argentine rested by Mancini for Thursday's match against spirited Polish opposition.
Adebayor put City two-up early in the first half, but Lech hit back through Joel Tshibamba just after the break and had chances to equalize before the striker sealed victory with his third goal late in the second half after being set up by the excellent David Silva.
England winger Adam Johnson nearly scored a superb individual fourth, but the night belonged to Adebayor, who might have also added to his tally.
The win sees them top of Group A ahead of Lech, with Juventus in third after their 1-1 draw in Salzburg.
Earlier, fellow English Premier League side Liverpool battled to a goalless draw against Napoli in the southern Italian city.
There was a massive police presence at the San Paolo stadium after attacks on Liverpool supporters prior to the tie.
Liverpool manager Roy Hodgson, under pressure after their dismal start to the English Premier League season, fielded an inexperienced side lacking Steven Gerrard and Fernando Torres and they did him proud.
With five points from three games, they remain top and favorites to qualify from Group K
"We're going through a very bad passage in the league, things haven't gone our way for a variety of reasons and that's why we find ourselves down the bottom and desperate to get away," Hodgson told AFP.
In other Europa League action, Portuguse giants Porto scored their third win from three as they triumphed 3-1 at Turkey's Besiktas - despite having two men sent off.
Falcao hit the opener and Hulk scored the other two goals before Bobo netted a consolation for the hosts.
Paris St Germain remain unbeaten in Group J as the French side thanked Clement Chantome for a late equaliser against Bundesliga leaders Borussia Dortmund. The Germans had gone ahead through Nuri Sahin penalty.
Spain's Sevilla are chasing PSG in second in a tough group, one point behind, after a 1-0 win at Karpaty Lviv with Frederic Kanoute scoring the winner.
