(HLN)Nick Gordon, romantic partner of Bobbi Kristina Brown, sat down recently with Dr. Phil McGraw for his first on-camera interview since Whitney Houston's daughter was rushed to the hospital in January after being found face down in her bathtub. The interview aired Wednesday on NBC.
When his team traveled to Atlanta and initially approached Gordon about the interview, Dr. Phil says they found him in a hysterical state. Video showed an intoxicated Gordon crying and mumbling about missing Krissy, as Brown's family calls her.
Brown was found unresponsive in her Roswell, Georgia, home on January 31 and remains hospitalized. Authorities say they're approaching her case as a criminal investigation.
See more: Who's who: Bobbi Kristina's small family circle
Dr. Phil first spoke with Nick Gordon's mother, Michelle Gordon, who said her son had admitted to her his desire to take his own life. Even though she's never known him to abuse drugs or alcohol in the past, she said she has recently spoken to her son on the phone when he appeared to be drunk or high.
"He has blamed himself for [Krissy] being in the condition that she's in, he's torn up by that," Michelle Gordon told Dr. Phil. "He's dealing with it by drinking. I've begged him to stop."
She said repeatedly that Nick Gordon is at a breaking point and that he's even attempted to kill himself by taking Xanax and Unisom.
"Left to his own devices, he'll be dead inside a week," Dr. Phil told her.
That's when Dr. Phil went up to Nick Gordon's hotel room to persuade him that he needs an intervention. On the way back to the interview room, Gordon admitted that he'd had two shots of alcohol earlier that morning and later started crying in the elevator while showing Dr. Phil his new tattoo: Bobbi Kristina's name on his forearm.
Read more: Bobbi Kristina Brown's life in the public eye
Throughout the interview, Gordon appeared distracted and distraught. He stood up and walked out of the room multiple times, only to come back to continue the interview. He constantly interrupted both Dr. Phil and his own mother with random interjections about Krissy's engagement ring or how much he hates Bobby Brown.
"I miss Krissy and Whitney so much!" Gordon repeated several times, adding that he's lost "the most legendary singer ever" and that he cannot lose Krissy, too.
Gordon kept switching from crying in his mother's arms, to laughing at Dr. Phil's multiple requests to go to rehab, to agreeing that he needs to get sober in order to help Krissy. He admitted to drinking too much and taking too many pills, only to say he's fine and doesn't care about rehab later in the interview.
He told Dr. Phil he hasn't been sleeping and has been waking up in the middle of the night, praying for Krissy. He also explained to the host how much emotional pain he's in, saying, "My heart hurts. I have panic attacks."
At one point, Gordon broke down crying, uttering, "I'm going to seem so weak in front of the world."
Read more: What's the truth about Bobbi Kristina's marriage?
"Doc, please help me see Krissy," Gordon pleaded with Dr. Phil, to which the doctor responded, "We've got to get you cleaned up first."
Eventually, he shook Dr. Phil's hand, promising, "as a man," to go directly to rehab after this taping. The audience didn't see him leave with the representatives from Willingway, an addiction treatment center in Georgia, but Dr. Phil later told the media Gordon did check into the facility after the interview, according to Fox News.
