Lindsay Lohan faces new criminal charges in California, filed just hours after the actress was arrested in New York in connection with an alleged early morning fight at a nightclub.
Lohan's latest legal troubles could send her back to jail because she is on probation for a necklace theft conviction.
Lohan's convoluted path through the criminal courts system and her struggle with drugs and alcohol has taken her to court 19 times and to five rehab facilities for a total of 250 days since January 2007.
Lohan, 26, was arrested at a Manhattan nightclub after an alleged fight about 4 a.m. Thursday, the New York Police Department said.
Lohan may have hit another woman at the Avenue Lounge, police said. Authorities declined to say whether she faced charges.
"Once again, Lindsay Lohan is a victim of someone trying to capture their 15 minutes of fame," Lohan's New York lawyer, Mark Heller, told CNN. "From my initial investigation, I am completely confident that this case will be concluded favorably and that Lindsay will be totally exonerated."
'Liz & Dick' producer talks the risky business of hiring Lindsay Lohan
Across the country in Santa Monica, California, the city attorney filed four charges against Lohan Thursday morning in connection with a car crash last summer.
She is accused of giving false information to a police officer, obstructing or resisting a police officer in performance of his duty and reckless driving, according to the city attorney's office.
While these charges are all misdemeanors and would not alone normally result in jail time, the Los Angeles city attorney, who successfully prosecuted the actress for stealing a necklace in 2011, could ask a judge to revoke her probation.
A decision by the Los Angeles city attorney could come as soon as Friday, spokesman Frank Mateljan said.
While it would likely be several days before the prosecutor gets confirmation of Lohan's New York arrest, the Santa Monica charges filed Thursday should reach the Los Angeles city attorney's office sooner.
The timing of a decision on seeking a revocation of Lohan's probation for the shoplifting conviction depends on the workload in the prosecutor's office, Mateljan said.
The Santa Monica charges stem from a car crash last June while Lohan was on her way to the set for the filming of "Liz & Dick," the Lifetime movie that aired this week.
She is accused of telling police her assistant was driving the Porsche, while witnesses told investigators they saw Lohan behind the wheel.
"During the subsequent investigation, information was developed that Lohan was the driver of the Porsche when the accident occurred," the Santa Monica prosecutor said in a statement to CNN.
Lohan: Keep me on set, it's safer that way
CNN's Carolyn Sung and Marina Carver contributed to this report
