A celebrity boxing promoter is hoping to capitalize on the alleged nightclub brawl between singer Chris Brown and rapper Drake by offering them $1 million each to take their beef to the ring.
The promoter, Damon Feldman, also says he is asking singer Rihanna to be a ring girl at the bout, but acknowledged she'll likely pass.
Feldman says he has the financial backing of businessman Alki David and that he'll donate $1 million to a charity that helps abused women if the fight takes place.
The fight, he said, would feature three minute-long rounds with the participants donning oversized gloves and protective head gear.
Feldman is no stranger to publicity. He has put on fights featuring ex-baseball outfielder Jose Canseco, Lindsay Lohan's dad Michael and Rodney King.
Feldman says he has not received a response from either Drake or Brown.
And while Drake tweeted about his dry cleaning, and Brown about a helpful stewardess, neither made mention of the offer on their Twitter pages.
Meanwhile, police continue their investigation into the bottle-throwing melee allegedly between Drake and Brown and their entourages that took place at the New York City club W.i.P on June 14.
Drake brings Club Paradise to Jones Beach
Brown was partying with friends in the VIP section of the South Village club, while the Drake and his friends were nearby, according to statements from reps for both artists.
Brown has said he was a victim in the incident, and Drake's representatives have said he "did not engage in any activity which resulted in injury."
The squabble left Brown with a nasty gash on his chin and fueled Internet rumors that it started because of an argument about Rihanna, the sizzling songstress that both men have dated.
A source close to Brown has since told CNN that the confrontation was not about Rihanna.
San Antonio Spurs guard Tony Parker was also injured in the scuffle. Parker is suing the nightclub for $20 million over an eye injury he claims he suffered that night.
Source: Rihanna argument did not spur Chris Brown fight
The suit alleges that the owners and operators of the nightclub were "negligent in permitting Drake's entourage and Brown's entourage to be in the club at the same time despite known tension between the two" and contends the owners failed to provide "sufficient and efficient security."
Feldman said he wants the boxing match to be in either Las Vegas or Los Angeles.
Despite the fact that Brown is on probation until 2014 for pleading guilty to assaulting Rihanna on the eve of the 2009 Grammy Awards, Feldman said he has asked Rihanna to be in the ring carrying a sign that displays the number of the upcoming round.
"I'm 99.9% sure she'll say no. But I can guarantee you, if the fight happens, she will be watching," Feldman said.
Some have already speculated on who would win a rematch.
Rapper 50 Cent told a California radio station he thinks Brown's prowess in dancing would help him beat Drake.
"I would take Chris," 50 told KMEL last week. "I guess it's cause of all the physical things I see him doing with dancing and moving. He be slipping and moving. I don't see Drake doing that. Chris be having his shirt off. He got one of them MMA fighter looks. Like he might have did karate when he was a kid. He's kicking, doing splits and stuff. This could really get interesting."
Rihanna on Chris Brown: I'm going to do what I want
