Mark Webber became an unprecedented sixth different winner in six races this season as he drove his Red Bull to victory at the prestigious Monaco Grand Prix Sunday.
Webber made the most of starting from pole position to hold off Nico Rosberg in the Mercedes with Fernando Alonso taking third for Ferrari to take over at the top of the world title standings.
Webber's Red Bull teammate and two-time defending champion Sebastian Vettel finished a fine fourth after starting ninth on the grid.
Both Alonso and Vettel moved ahead of a disappointed Lewis Hamilton during their pit stops, leaving the McLaren driver in fifth spot. Felipe Massa was sixth in the second Ferrari.
Briton Paul di Resta drove a fine race to finish seventh, just ahead of his Force India teammate German Nico Hulkenberg.
Finn Kimi Raikkonen of Lotus and Brazilian Bruno Senna in his Williams completed the points scoring.
It was the third straight Monaco win for Red Bull, who extended their lead in the constructors' standings over McLaren.
Webber, who also won in 2010, was claiming his eighth Formula One career victory and he moved level with Vettel into joint second in the standings, three points adrift of Alonso.
"I feel incredible," Webber told the official post-race press conference. "It was a very interesting race, reasonably straightforward at the start, just managing the gap to Nico (Rosberg).
"I'm really glad to have won here again, a great victory for me."
It was another disappointing race day for seven-time champion Michael Schumacher, who had been the fastest in qualifying.
A five-place grid penalty left the Mercedes driver starting from sixth and an early tangle with Romain Grosjean (Lotus), who was forced to retire, saw him slip back to eighth.
A technical problem later hit Schumacher to leave him pointless again.
The race was held against the backdrop of the constant threat of a rain shower, which could have seen a complete change in the finishing order.
The rain eventually came with a vengeance after the finish, leaving Webber to breath a sigh of relief.
Alonso was also a big winner on the day, with Ferrari making great strides after being off the pace earlier in the season.
"For me, the target was to try to finish in front of Sebastian and Lewis (Hamilton) as they are with us in the championship. If you go race by race, you aim to finish ahead of different drivers.
"Now it is Mark (Webber). It will be interesting, as we are constantly developing the car and we are constantly surprised at every race."
The seventh round of the championship takes place in Canada in two weeks time.
