Former President George W. Bush will host an elite group at the dedication of his presidential library in Dallas on Thursday. President Barack Obama and former Presidents Bill Clinton, George H. W. Bush and Jimmy Carter will attend the event.
Here's a look at other presidential libraries by the numbers.
13 - Number of presidential libraries in the United States.
1939 - Year of the groundbreaking of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum, in Hyde Park, New York. It was the first presidential library.
7 - Number of presidential libraries located on campus or affiliated with a university.
3 - Number of presidential libraries located at universities in Texas. The Lyndon B. Johnson Presidential Library and Museum is at the University of Texas in Austin. The George Bush Library and Museum is at Texas A & M in College Station, and the George W. Bush Presidential Library is on the campus of Southern Methodist University.
Stand back: Bush is 'busting stereotypes'
2 - Number of universities campaigning to host President Barack Obama's library and museum: The University of Chicago and the University of Hawaii.
6 tons - Weight of the Sikorsky VH 3A "Sea King" helicopter that is on display at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum in Yorba Linda, California. Nixon made his final flight on it after his resignation on August 9, 1974. "Army One" was used by Presidents Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, and Ford.
1,600 - Number of oral interviews archived in the collection at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum in Boston.
27 million - Pages of historical material originally archived in the Jimmy Carter Library and Museum in Atlanta.
305 - Number of energy saving solar panels at the William J. Clinton Presidential Library and Museum in Little Rock, Arkansas.
2 inches - Height of the base that was added to President Ronald Reagan's desk, so his legs would fit underneath. A full-sized replica of Reagan's Oval Office is on display at his library in Simi Valley, California.
1 - Number of recipes for a "Frosted Mint Delight" dessert that appear on the Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library and Museum's website. It was listed as one of his favorites! (A "Prune Whip" also made the list.). The library is located in Abilene, Kansas.
More than 3,000 - Number of gifts President George H. W. Bush received from foreign heads of state that are part of the main collection at the George Bush Library and Museum.
More than 43,000 - Number of gifts President George W. Bush and Laura Bush received from heads of state and from American citizens, some of which are on display on an online gallery. It includes a bullhorn President Bush used at Ground Zero after the September 11, 2001, attacks.
More than $500 million - Amount raised for the George W. Bush Presidential Library, which opens to the public on May 1.
