LONDON, England -- Younes Kaboul scored in injury time to earn Tottenham a remarkable 4-4 Premier League home draw with Aston Villa, sealing a remarkable fightback after trailing 4-1 and possibly saving manager Martin Jol from the sack.
Tottenham players celebrate Dimitar Berbatov's opening goal in an amazing match at White Hart Lane.
Dimitar Berbatov opened the scoring for Spurs but two goals from Martin Laursen edged the visitors ahead and Gabriel Agbonlahor and Craig Gardner added to the lead.
However, Pascal Chimbonda and Robbie Keane pulled goals back and deep into added time Kaboul found the top corner to level the scores.
Jol appeared a man on the brink after Tottenham fell 4-1 behind but his side dug deep to earn a point on the evening of their 125th anniversary celebrations -- although they remain third bottom of the table.
Bulgarian striker Berbatov put Spurs ahead in the 20th minute, powerfully heading home from Tom Huddlestone's corner.
But Villa hit back immediately when England goalkeeper Paul Robinson dropped Gareth Barry's corner, allowing Laursen to prod home after a ricochet off Pascal Chimbonda.
Laursen got his second of the game in the 33rd minute when Barry's free-kick on the left was met by Zat Knight -- and the ball struck the Danish defender before finding the net.
Agbonlahor made it 3-1 five minutes from half-time when he won the ball off Michael Dawson after a Luke Moore flick-on, twisted into the penalty area and finished neatly, low into the far corner of Robinson's net.
Tottenham's hopes looked forlorn early in the second half when Gardner powered home a free-kick off the post but the hosts quickly pulled one back when Jermain Defoe hit the post from Gareth Bale's cross and Chimbonda followed up.
With eight minutes remaining Marlon Harewood fouled Darren Bent in the area and Keane fired home the spot-kick.
That set up an exciting finish and Tottenham's relentless pressure finally paid dividends when Kaboul slammed home in stoppage time after Villa failed to clear a corner.   E-mail to a friend
