Juan Martin del Potro became the third man in the history of the Estoril Open to successfully defend his title after beating France's Richard Gasquet in the final 6-4, 6-2 Sunday.
The Argentine started strongly, breaking Gasquet's serve to love in the very first game before capitalizing on the Frenchman's unforced errors.
The second set started much like the first with Del Potro breaking Gasquet and polishing off the final in just 88 minutes.
"I felt I played well, really well, today," Del Potro told the ATP's official website.
"It was my best match of the week, so I am very glad for that to get another title in Estoril.
"I am getting closer and closer to my best form. I have worked really hard at home and now I have another important tournament next week to improve further. If I play as well as I did today over the coming days, I will be happy."
Gasquet was gracious in defeat.
"He played very well, he's very powerful, has a great a service, a great forehand and backhand," he conceded.
"He deserved this win ... It's always disappointing to lose a final. (In other finals) I lost five times to Djokovic, Federer, now Del Potro. They were better than me."
Meanwhile Philipp Kohlschreiber won Munich's ATP tournament on home soil after beating Croatia's Marin Cilic in straight sets 7-6 (10/8), 6-3.
The 28-year-old is set to break in to the world top 25 after the win, the second time he has won the tournament in five years.
"It's tough to find the words when you win your home tournament," Kohlschreiber told the ATP's official website.
"It's an amazing feeling to win in front of my home fans."
Despite a tight opening exchange Cilic went down in straight sets, the second time he has been runner up here in two years.
"I had four or five set points in the first set. I felt the whole time I was trying to catch him.
"It's unfortunate losing in the final for the second time, but I'm happy with the week. I'm going to put this final behind me and look forward to Madrid."
The clay court season now looks towards the start of the Madrid Open on Monday, which has caused controversy over its use of blue clay for the first time.
World number one Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer will all appear.
