A typhoon that killed at least 39 people in the Philippines made landfall in southern China on Thursday.
Chinese authorities evacuated 300,000 people as they prepared for the effects of Typhoon Nesat, a disaster-response agency reported.
It is the strongest typhoon to hit China this year, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
Nesat made landfall in southern China's Hainan province, bringing strong winds and rain to Wengitan Township and nearby areas, Xinhua reported.
In addition to evacuations, authorities in southern China recalled ships and suspended scheduled flights and ferry trips as they steeled for the typhoon's effect, the news agency reported.
The death toll from the storm in the Philippines, meanwhile, has increased.
The storm killed 39 people, injured 43 others and left 31 missing, according to the most recent figures from the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council.
Nesat -- referred to in the Philippines as Pedring -- displaced thousands in the archipelago nation, the state-run Philippines News Agency reported.
A baby boy was among the dead when the typhoon slammed into the Philippines on Tuesday, authorities said.
The storm struck the agricultural provinces of Isabela and Aurora the hardest. But storm alerts were also issued for more than 40 other areas, including metro Manila, the state weather bureau Philippine Atmospheric Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration said.
Nearly 680,000 people were affected by the typhoon in 31 provinces, the disaster council said.
More than 120 people were rescued across the country, the council said, many of them from boats.
Some roads around Manila were impassable due to flooding and falling debris, including branches that had been ripped off trees.
Several areas in Metro Manila and nearby provinces were without electricity as the powerful storm cut power and transmission lines.
Meanwhile, another storm -- Tropical Storm Nalgae -- is expected to make landfall in the Philippines on Saturday, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency's Typhoon Center.
