Lerone Clarke of Jamaica held off the challenge of England's Mark Lewis-Francis to win the men's 100 meters title at the Commonwealth Games on Thursday.
The 29-year-old stormed over the line in 10.12 seconds, 0.08 faster than Lewis-Francis. Trinidad and Tobago's Aaron Amstrong took the bronze in 10.24.
Clarke took advantage of the absence of his better-known countrymen Usain Bolt and Asafa Powell to claim his Jamaica's first gold of the Delhi games.
But it could have been even better for the Caribbean nation had Oshane Bailey not missed the final after pulling up with a hamstring injury after the semifinals.
Lewis-Francis blamed a loose block for his failure to improve on the silver he won at the European Championships earlier this year.
"That's one of the hardest races I've done this season, there's just that little bit of disappointment knowing what could have been," he told BBC television.
"This is an amazing season for me, I want to say one thing: I would've won that.
"My block slipped, that's why it looks like I'm so far behind. I had to run deep within just to get a medal. There's a lot more there."
Meanwhile, Australia's Sally Pearson won the women's 100m in 11.28 seconds, but was later disqualified for a false start.
Although no medals ceremony has been held, the official results list on the Games web site promoted Nigeria's Osayemi Oludamola into the gold medal position, with Natasha Mayers of St Vincent and the Grenadines (11.37) taking silver and England's Katherine Endacott getting the bronze.
The Australian Commonwealth Games Association is appealing the decision.
Leading sprinters Veronica Campbell-Brown, Shelly-Ann Fraser and Kerron Stewart, all from Jamaica, were not competing in Delhi.
There was better news for Australia in the swimming pool, with Alicia Coutts claiming her third gold medal of the Games.
Coutts had already won the 200m individual medley and 100m freestyle titles.
"It's an amazing feeling," she told reporters. "I didn't think I would get one gold, let alone three - I'm stoked.
"My first win was a huge confidence booster and it's powered me through these Games."
Chad Le Clos, an 18-year old from South Africa set a Games record as he added the men's 400m individual medley gold to his 200m butterfly title.
Elsewhere, there were golds for Brent Hayden of Canada in the 100m freestyle and England's Rebecca Adlington in the women's 800m freestyle.
