Rafael Benitez was given a red-hot reception at Stamford Bridge as Chelsea fans vented their fury at its team's new manager.
The Spaniard, who coached his side to a goalless draw with Manchester City, was subjected to chants and taunts throughout the game by home supporters.
The former Liverpool manager replaced Roberto Di Matteo after the Italian was sacked by owner Roman Abramovich last week.
Benitez takes over Chelsea hot seat
But many of the club's supporters are unhappy with the decision given last season's FA Cup and Champions League triumphs.
In the 16th minute, fans began to sing and applaud Di Matteo, who wore the number 16 shirt during his time as a player at the west London club.
But Benitez, whose side sit fourth and five points off leaders Manchester United, insists the hostile welcome did not bother him.
"I am focused on the game, I don't listen to the crowd," he told reporters.
"The main thing was the team on the pitch. I was not listening, I was just concentrating on the game.
"It was a tough game against a good team, no clear chances for them or us.
"It's not the ideal (result) but to have a clean sheet and to see the spirit and mentality and work rate was quite positive.
"You could see they were trying really hard with and without the ball and against a great team they had some chances."
City, who exited the Champions League during the week, are second in the league, a point behind neighbours United.
Di Matteo sacked by Chelsea
But manager Roberto Mancini felt his side should have done better, especially after Sergio Aguero missed a glorious opportunity early on.
"We were so poor in the last 20 metres," Mancini said. "When we have a chance, we need to score. "If you are soft, you won't score. That's why I was upset."
Meanwhile, goals from Adam Lallana and Gaston Ramirez helped Southampton climb out of the relegation zone with a 2-0 victory over Newcastle.
Tottenham defeated West Ham 3-1 at White Hart Lane to move up to seventh and go level with fierce rivals Arsenal.
Jermain Defoe scored twice and Gareth Bale was also on target with Andy Carroll breaking his 15-game drought for the visitors.
Brendan Rodgers was forced to endure a frustrating afternoon on his return to Swansea as his Liverpool side were held to a goalless draw.
