Cristiano Ronaldo netted twice on his return from a ban as Real Madrid cut the gap on Spanish leaders Barcelona to two points with a 3-0 victory at bottom club Xerez on Saturday night.
The world's most expensive player, who scored twice before being sent off in his previous outing against Malaga last month, also hit the crossbar as Real scored all their goals in the final half-hour.
Defender Alvaro Arbeloa broke the deadlock in the 64th minute with a low shot past the Andalusians' goalkeeper Renan Brito before Ronaldo made up for a series of misses.
The Portugal forward, who headed against the bar just before halftime, made it 2-0 with 20 minutes to play when he headed home from a cross by Kaka after his fellow expensive pre-season signing drove to the by-line.
The Brazil playmaker also set up Ronaldo's second goal a minute later when he selflessly squared the ball to his teammate.
The result put Manuel Pellegrini's Real team on 53 points from 22 matches ahead of champions Barcelona's trip to Atletico Madrid on Sunday.
Xerez look set for an immediate return to the second division, having earned just 11 points so far this season.
Third-placed Valencia lost ground after being held to a 1-1 draw at Sporting Gijon, needing a second-half equalizer from Juan Mata.
The mid-table Asturians, who had lost their last four games, took the lead in just the fifth minute when midfielder Diego Castro smashed a drive into the top of the net following a corner.
But Valencia, held 2-2 by Sporting earlier this season, hit back as Carlos Marchena and former Gijon player David Villa hit the woodwork.
Mata earned a point with 14 minutes left as he gathered a long pass from Ever Banega and slotted past onrushing goalkeeper Juan Pablo.
Villarreal gave new coach Juan Carlos Garrido victory in his first home match in charge, defeating seventh-placed Athletic Bilbao 2-1 in a stormy game which saw four red cards handed out and a missed penalty.
Joan Capdevila and Nilmar scored in the first half for the home side, who lost 1-0 at Real Mallorca in Garrido's first outing, with Igor Gabilondo having leveled for Bilbao in the 24th minute.
The match erupted in the final minutes as Andoni Iraola had his weak penalty saved by Villarreal goalkeeper Diego Lopez, then Javi Martinez and Diego Godin were sent off following an ugly episode of infringements and Athletic coach Joaquin Caparros was also red-carded in the aftermath.
Bilbao ended the game with nine men after Pablo Orbaiz was ordered off after an incident with Ariel Ibagaza.
In Italy, Roma returned to second place in Serie A with a 4-1 thrashing of Palermo on Saturday.
Cesare Bovo's 33rd-minute own-goal put Claudio Ranieri's team ahead at halftime, then goals from Brazilian Julio Baptista and Matteo Brighi made it 3-0 with less than half an hour to play.
Sixth-placed Palermo hit back with an 80th-minute penalty to Fabrizio Miccoli, but Norway defender Jon-Arne Riise sealed victory with a superb strike that left the Giallorossi six points behind leaders Inter Milan, who travel to fifth-placed Napoli on Sunday.
Fourth-placed Sampdoria climbed to within six points of third-placed AC Milan, who won 3-2 at Udinese on Friday, after a 2-0 home win against Fiorentina.
First-half goals from Franco Semioli and Giampaolo Pazzini, against his former club, left Fiorentina in 11th place ahead of Wednesday's Champions League last-16 tie against Bayern Munich.
