LOS ANGELES, California (CNN)  -- TLC will take a six-week break from producing new "Jon & Kate Plus 8" episodes to give the Gosselin family "some time off to regroup" after the couple split up, the cable network said.
Jon and Kate Gosselin announced their official separation on Monday evening's show.
Kate Gosselin filed for a divorce from Jon on Monday, after 10 years of marriage and four weeks into the current season of the popular reality show.
"Over the course of this weekend, Jon's activities have left me no choice but to file legal procedures in order to protect myself and our children," she said in a statement released by TLC on Tuesday.
"While there are reasons why it was appropriate and necessary for me to initiate this proceeding, I do not wish to discuss those reasons at this time, in the hope that all issues will be resolved amicably between Jon and myself."
Jon Gosselin said their eight children -- including sextuplets and a set of twins -- "are still my number one priority." iReport.com: Share your custody success stories
"I love them and want to make sure they stay happy, healthy and safe," he said in a TLC statement.
"My job is being the best, most supportive and loving father that I can be to my kids, and not being married to Kate doesn't change that."
TLC said it would "work closely with them to determine the best way to continue to tell their story as they navigate through this difficult time."
"Following a retrospective of Jon and Kate's first 10 years airing on June 29th, the show will be on hiatus until August 3rd," the network said. "During this time the family will take some time off to regroup and then a modified schedule will be in place to support the family's transition."
New episodes will resume on August 3, it said. Blog: Should the show go on?
"This will be a difficult transition for all of us, but Kate and I will work out a schedule that enables our kids to have plenty of quality time with both of us at home in Pennsylvania," Jon Gosselin said in Tuesday's statement.
"In terms of my marriage, it's no secret that the past six months or so have been very difficult for Kate and me. We are no different than other couples and parents who are facing a crossroads in their marriage. I am of course deeply saddened that we are divorcing."
The couple announced their separation on Monday's episode.
"It's just not good for our kids [for us] to be arguing in front of our kids," Jon said during Monday's broadcast.
"I'm not very fond of the idea, personally," Kate said. "But I know it's necessary because my goal is peace for the kids." iReport.com: Reality TV teaches real lesson
Jon said he realized he had been "too passive."
"I just let her rule the roost and do whatever she wanted," Jon said. "Now I finally stood up on my own two feet and I'm proud of myself."
Kate said that though she doesn't hate Jon, their "goals are different now."
"I'm tired of smiling on the outside while I'm crying on the inside," Kate said. "I've been doing that for a long time."
That might not surprise those who watch the show or follow their relationship in the media. Rumors have been swirling in tabloids and in other media outlets that the Gosselins' marriage was in trouble.
Monday's episode was not short of tense moments between the couple. It began with the installation of "crooked houses" -- outdoor mini-houses the kids helped design that the Gosselins put on their property -- and Jon and Kate's disagreement as to where they should be placed. Jon cleared out a spot for the tiny homes, which was a little too far from the house for Kate's comfort.
"Any flak that he receives turns into a huge blowup anymore, unfortunately," Kate said. "But I wanted to do the right thing for my kids, so I was caught again."
In the end, Kate won, and the houses were erected where she chose.
The kids will continue living in their Wernersville, Pennsylvania, home, the couple said. Each parent will stay there during their time with them.
When asked what worries her most, Kate said it's "the label that we've failed, how that will affect our kids ... how they'll be another statistic."
CNN's Jack Hannah contributed to this report.
