(CNN Student News) -- May 27, 2014
We're doing some serious globetrotting this Tuesday, covering events taking place in Afghanistan, the Middle East, Europe, and India. We'll take you aboard a ship that carries poignant reminders of the sacrifices of U.S. troops, and we'll show you how some young people set a record by sticking together.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were a journalist traveling with a world leader, what skills might you have to draw upon if there were a sudden change in plans?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Tomb of the Unknown Soldier
2. USS Cole
3. European Union
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What surprise trip did President Obama make this weekend? What did he say to U.S. troops there? Why are presidential trips like this often kept secret? What scandal involving the Department of Veterans Affairs is happening in the U.S.? Why are some criticizing the president regarding this scandal?
2. What kind of vessel is the USS Cole? What happened to the USS Cole on October 12, 2000? What reminders of that day does the ship carry? When was the ship last in New York? What is significant about a shipboard photo that was taken at that time?
3. Where did Pope Francis start the second day of his visit to the Holy Land? According to the report: What spontaneous stop did he make? What was symbolic about his prayer there? What surprise invitation did he make, and to whom did he make it? What surprise did Palestinian children have for the pope? How did he respond? According to the video, what solution to the Middle East crisis does the Vatican support? How did the pope finish his day?
4. What is the European Union, and when was it established? What are the goals of this group of nations? Why did one official call Sunday's EU elections a political "earthquake"?
5. According to the video, who is likely to be the next president of Ukraine? What do we know about him? What issue has been at the center of unrest in Ukraine in recent months?
6. What country is often referred to as the world's largest democracy? What political event are some people in this country celebrating? What challenges await Narendra Modi as he takes office? What decisions might he make that could be unpopular with some of India's citizens?
Discussion Questions:
1. What might be some reasons why a commander-in-chief would make a surprise visit to U.S. troops in another country? Do you think it affects the morale of servicemen and women in that place? Explain.
2. What is significant about a public meeting between leaders of different religions? What message do you think this kind of meeting sends to the religions' followers and to others?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
