(EW.com) -- "True Blood" fans are still reeling from last night's epic and bloody season finale.
SPOILER ALERT! We saw the returns of Grands (Lois Smith) and Rene (Michael Raymond-James), as well as possibly the resurrection of Russell (Denis O'Hare). But the most disturbing twists were Lafayette (Nelsan Ellis) stabbing Jesus (Kevin Alejandro), and Tara (Rutina Wesley) getting shot in the head by Debbie Pelt (Britt Morgan).
EW talked to Wesley about the finale and whether or not Tara survived the gunshot wound.
What did you think when you read the season finale script?
Well I mean, I knew ahead of time that it was coming. It's always a scary place as an actor to go there. I don't know what their plans are for next season. I know that Alan has said there are "big plans," but I don't know what that really means, and things can always change. I'm not for sure, but I trust him completely. At the end of the day, it's hard to see how I'm coming back, seeing as half of my head was just blown off. I don't know. They may figure something out. I mean it's True Blood. There's always flashbacks. There's phantasms. There's all this crazy stuff. It's very possible. But I'm excited either way. If it does all end, I've had the most amazing time of my life. It's really great.
In your mind, is Tara dead?
Well I mean half my head is missing. I'm just gonna keep saying that. You know, it's "True Blood." I feel like anything is possible. If anything, it is the golden hour though. If she is able to be saved, it's like she's got 20 seconds. It's not a lot of time. I'm curious to see what they're going to do with all of it. I hope I'm back. But again half my head is missing [laughs].
Maybe Tara will just wear a lot of hats?
Yeah I mean yeah she can wear a lot of hats. Put some gauze on it. But people are going crazy! [Laughs]
It was crazy! Are people approaching you?
Well my phone has been blowing up. I talked to Nelsan and his phone was blowing up. He was like, "People are about to start a riot over you." I think that's so sweet to know that people out there are really upset and some people are like, "I'm not watching the show anymore!" I'm like, C'mon guys. But it's not over. It ain't over til the fat lady sings. I'm just gonna take it one day at a time. As I said, I haven't seen any scripts from next season, but I know that I'm involved -- I just don't know in what way.
Are you signed on for a season 5?
Yeah. It's out there that Alan has already said that he has big plans for Tara. But things change. I don't know exactly what they have in store for me and how long that will be. It's tricky. And if I did know, I'm just not going to say. [Laughs] But again -- half the head is missing. The cool part is people are talking. And that's the question is: Is she dead or is she not? Because people can survive head wounds. But we have people on the show that can make things happen -- you know what I mean? I don't know what's going to happen the first episode of next season. I'm just as excited and curious you are. I hope it's good. I hope I stick around for a while. That would be nice. [Laughs]
Was it emotional shooting that scene on the kitchen floor?
It was emotional. I think we all went out afterwards -- me, Britt and Anna -- just to sort of have a little celebration. But it was very very emotional. I don't think there was a dry eye when we shot that scene. It's very clear the relationship when Tara goes, "I would die for you." Basically, I would take a bullet for you. That's not necessarily a best friend -- she's like my sister. I think it was so amazing to see that. To see her walk in and go, "Oh, uh-uh." That goes to show you how much love Tara has. Anna in that moment I think played it so beautifully, and it was hard for me because I was like, "Okay, play dead. Play dead."
For more on "True Blood's" finale as well as a preview of what's in store for season 5, pick up the latest issue of Entertainment Weekly on stands Friday, September 16.
See full article at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
