Roma moved up to sixth place in the Serie A table after a 1-0 victory in the Rome 'derby' against city rivals Lazio.
Substitute full-back Marco Cassetti scored the only goal in the 79th minute, finding the corner of the net with a scuffed shot from Mirko Vucinic's cross.
Lazio had enjoyed the better of the chances in a tight matchm with Mauro Zarate striking the post on the hour mark -- before Roma goalkeeper Julio Sergio made an instinctive one-handed save from Stefano Mauri's follow-up.
Roma were reduced to 10 men in the 88th minute when David Pizarro picked up his second yellow card, but they held on for the victory on a match that was held up for 10 minutes in the first-half because of crowd disturbances.
In Sunday's other matches, Jonathan Biabiany scored twice as Parma drew 2-2 away to Genoa to keep hold of fourth in the table.
With Italy's top three all playing on Saturday, Parma came into the match in fourth after Sampdoria's 3-0 defeat at AC Milan on Saturday dropped them down to fifth overnight.
Rodrigo Palacio initially put Genoa in position to take fourth themselves with a 14th minute opener.
But Biabiany struck on 36 and 59 minutes to give Parma the lead before Raffaelle Palladino equalized eight minutes later, leaving Genoa in seventh position.
At one point during the afternoon Cagliari, who had won five of their last six matches and beat Juventus 2-0 a week ago, had looked in pole position to go fourth as they led 1-0 at Palermo at halftime through Alessandro Matri.
But goals from Igor Budan and Simon Kjaer 10 minutes apart gave Delio Rossi his first win as coach of the Sicilians.
Fiorentina moved up to fifth after their 2-0 home win over Atalanta ended their two-match losing streak.
Peru international Juan Vargas opened the scoring on 26 minutes with a left-foot rocket from outside the box and Italy forward Alberto Gilardino clinched the victory a minute from time.
The race for fourth is now so tight that Parma are only five points above Palermo in 13th place.
Napoli extended their unbeaten run since Walter Mazzarri took over from Roberto Donadoni to nine matches in all competitions as Fabio Quagliarella scored a brace, including the winner two minutes from time, in a 3-2 success at home to Bari.
Bari led 2-1 after an hour through goals from Paulo Barreto and Andrea Ranocchia but then had Alessandro Parisi dismissed. Cristian Maggio restored parity before Quagliarella's late winner while Bari ended with nine men as Ranocchia also saw red late on.
At the bottom of the table Siena gave themselves a lifeline with a come-from-behind 3-2 home win over second bottom Catania.
