(CNN)  -- Greetings, everyone! It's a great day for baseball.
We've got a great battle for you today between two of the heaviest hitters in the baseball video game universe: "MLB 11 The Show" (Sony) and "MLB2K11" (2KSports).
Both of these popular annual titles have retooled their lineups with some new additions this season. So in honor or baseball's opening day Thursday, we match them up, feature by feature, in a nine-inning smackdown.
Here we go:
1st inning -- Pitching:
Both titles use buttons to select the type of pitch and the right analog stick for the delivery. "MLB 11 The Show" is a simple pull-back, push-forward motion with the analog stick for the velocity and direction of the pitch. The more you use a pitch, the better it becomes. A sliding bar indicates the best time to go from back to forward on the stick for optimum accuracy.
"MLB2K11" uses the left stick for direction and right stick for a series of movements that correspond to the type of pitch you select. For example, a cut fastball might require a move to the left followed by a sweeping motion down. Your success is based on how well you time the power of the pitch and how accurate you are with your analog movements.
For ease of playability and not feeling like I have to contort every pitch, "MLB11 The Show" scores first here.
2nd inning -- Hitting:
Analog hitting is something both games do, but again, there is a difference in the execution. "MLB2K11" uses the left stick to indicate the direction you want to try to hit the ball and the right stick to make contact. A simple swing is a push forward and a power swing is pull back, then push forward. Bunting is done with the square button.
Analog hitting on "MLB 11 The Show" is all done with the right stick. You can decide if you want a normal swing or power swing by using the circle or square button, respectively. Pull back on the stick to have the player stride and then push forward to swing. Bunting is just a push forward motion.
Both are easy enough to use, although I cannot figure out if there is a timing to striding that helps hitting with "MLB 11 The Show." However, check swings are a bit easier with the stride, so I'm giving one run each to both games.
3rd inning -- Fielding:
Fielding in the games is identical. Move the left stick to get your player in position and use the correct buttons (or move the right stick if you are doing analog controls) to throw to the proper base.
While fly balls in each game use a circle shadow on the field to indicate where the ball is traveling, "MLB2K11" changes things up a bit by utilizing a second circle inside the shadow to more precisely tell you where the ball is coming down. That second circle changes in size depending on the fielding rating of the player trying to make the catch. The better the fielder, the smaller the circle.
For that, "MLB2K11" gets a run.
4th inning -- Players:
Each game is associated with the Major League Baseball Players Association, so almost all of the majors' current players are in the game, and their likenesses are recreated in digital format. The rosters are updated online, but when I tried to get the latest Baltimore Orioles roster, "MLB 11 The Show" didn't include offseason acquisition Vladimir Guerrero in the lineup while "MLB2K11" did. I did find Vlad in the free agent pool, however.
Both games try to recreate a realistic look and feeling with their digital players. "MLB 11 The Show" seemed to do a better job at portraying facial features and reactions without being repetitive. "MLB2K11" had a couple instances where players would have sunglasses on while walking up to the batter's box, then suddenly lose them when they stepped in. Also, "MLB2K11" would sometimes repeat the same player motions over and over after every pitch.
Movement in the field felt more natural with "MLB 11 The Show" with fluid action and no noticeable hiccups. "MLB2K11" had more than a few glitches when transitioning from fielding to throwing, but nothing that took away from actual game play.
"MLB2K11" gets a run for the roster update out of the box, while "MLB 11 The Show" gets 2 for a better look for the players and smoother animation.
5th inning -- Stadiums:
Both games do a great job rendering all 30 major league parks with all the identifying quirks and traits that make each different. And both also have generic-looking minor league ballparks.
Since there is no real difference between the two games here, I awarded no runs this inning.
6th inning -- Living the dream:
Each game has a mode that allows you to create a player and take them from AA rookie to the Hall of Fame. "MLB2K11" My Player mode provides a mentor that tells you what you need to work on in the minors to get your call-up to the bigs. Skill points can be earned during each at-bat, fielding chance or running opportunity. Increase your skills enough, and you earn a promotion to AAA or the big leagues.
"MLB 11 The Show" also lets you earn skill points and advance your way through your organization but offers more options when setting up your player. You can figure out what type of player you want to be (contact hitter, power swinger, speedster, etc.). Players also receive evaluations and training to make them better and get them ready for the majors.
I played as a 2nd baseman and an outfielder in both. The infield experience was similar, but in the outfield, the camera angle on "MLB2K11" sometimes made it difficult to tell where I needed to go to catch the ball. It got to be really frustrating at times.
So "MLB 11 The Show" scores a run this inning.
7th inning -- Real life:
Baseball is a game driven by statistics, and virtual baseball is no different.
"MLB 11 The Show" has developed a weather database that attempts to accurately reflect the real weather expected at each MLB stadium. That weather also affects what happens on the field and each player rating.
"MLB2K11" tries to bring the real game into your virtual game by adjusting player skills as the season progresses. If a player in the real world gets on a hot streak, he will experience a hot streak in the game. Likewise, if he is not playing well, expect his performance to lag in the virtual world.
So thanks to those in-season adjustments, "MLB2K11" gets the run here.
8th inning -- What's new?
"MLB2K11" has some improved camera angles, a new revamped fielding system and upgraded player models (although they still could use some work). The interface is better than last year, but still glitchy at times. It sometimes missed easy plays or threw to the wrong base.
"MLB 11 The Show" offers a new co-op mode that allows for a variety of options when you're playing others online. The game also supports the Sony Move controller and offers a Challenge of the Week, where gamers can earn points toward prizes. And it offers 3-D functionality on the PlayStation 3, if you want to see bats and balls flying at you.
Each game earns a run this inning because these new enhancements add value to both.
9th inning -- Bonus items:
"MLB 11 The Show" has a limited edition DualShock3 wireless controller that looks sort of like a baseball -- it's white and has baseball seams where the left and right buttons are located. But it's only worthy if you have a PlayStation 3.
"MLB2K11" is once again offering $1 million to anyone who can pitch (and record) a perfect game using specific criteria. Last year, an Alabama man won the prize using a spring training roster and game. This year, the contest does not actually start until opening day, so the feat may be harder to accomplish.
Let's award one run for the awesome DualShock3 controller and one run for the potential of winning a million dollars.
And the winner is ...?
Final score: "MLB 11 The Show" 6, "MLB2K11" 5.
Both games reach for as much realism as they can. But overall, smoother animation and player renderings make "MLB 11 The Show" a better choice in achieving the feeling of immersion in the game. There seems to be more variation in movements and reactions with "The Show," which appears cleaner that "MLB2K11."
That said, the in-season adjustments in "MLB2K11" are an interesting real-life addition to your season.
Bottom line: Today's contest was a close call, but either game would be a winner in your collection.
Both games were reviewed on the PlayStation 3 using the DualShock 3 controller. "MLB2K11" is available on the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Wii, PlayStation 2, PSP, Nintendo DS and PC. "MLB 11 The Show" is available on the PS3, PS2 and PSP. Both are rated E for Everyone and available now.
