Evidence found on the bodies of two men killed by a now-jailed U.S. diplomat aligns with the State Department's claim that the men were robbers, according to a Pakistani police official.
Raymond Davis, who works at the U.S. consulate in Lahore, Pakistan, has been jailed since January 27, when authorities say he shot and killed two men on a motorcycle. Davis said the men attacked him while trying to rob him as he drove through a busy neighborhood, according to the U.S. Embassy in Pakistan.
When police searched the bodies, they found stolen cell phones and cash that belonged to two men who had reported being robbed earlier that day by two gunmen on a motorcycle, a Pakistani police official told CNN.
The official identified the dead men as Faheem Shamshad, 26, and Faizan Haider, 22.
Their families filed police reports accusing Davis of murder, a police spokesman said.
A third person, Muhammad Abad ur Rehman, allegedly was struck and killed by a U.S. consulate car responding to the shooting. Police are investigating the death, but the U.S. Embassy has not revealed the identity of the person driving that car despite calls from Pakistani authorities to do so.
On Thursday, a judge in Lahore ordered the government to hold Davis for at least eight more days and place his name on an exit control list to ensure he does not leave the country.
In a statement on its website, the U.S. Embassy in Pakistan said its employee shot two armed men in self-defense and renewed its call for the Pakistani government to release him, saying he is entitled to diplomatic immunity.
Speculation in the Pakistani media has suggested that Davis was traveling on a business visa and that he was consequently not subject to diplomatic protections.
U.S. officials notified Pakistan's Foreign Ministry that the employee was in the country on diplomatic business, and details about his passport and visa were irrelevant, countered acting U.S. embassy spokeswoman Courtney Beale.
State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said Wednesday that the U.S. government is in "constant contact" with the Pakistan government.
"We continue to encourage the government of Pakistan to respect his diplomatic immunity and to release him," Crowley said.
Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari urged people not to use the incident for "political point scoring," spokesman Farhatullah Babar said.
"The president said that the government had taken a principled position, that the matter was before the judiciary whose verdict should be awaited and respected," Babar said.
The case has sparked some protest and fueled anti-American sentiments in Pakistan.
During several protests this week, hard-line clerics condemned the shootings and demanded the government not release Davis to the U.S. government.
Local television showed a rally in Karachi where protesters re-enacted their version of shooting incident. Men wearing smiling masks and holding toy guns played the part of Davis and gleefully danced around several protesters who pretended to be the shooting victims.
CNN's Reza Sayah and journalists Nasir Habib and Nosheen Abbas contributed to this story.
