Dutch striker Robin van Persie continued his superb scoring streak this season, netting another double as Arsenal beat German champions Borussia Dortmund 2-1 in the European Champions League to clinch top spot in Group F and secure qualification for the last 16.
Captain Van Persie had already found the net 15 times for Arsenal this season, and he added another one to his tally in the 49th minute when he headed home after some superb individual play on the left from Alex Song.
And Van Persie wrapped up a comfortable night for the Gunners when scoring his 17th goal from just 18 matches, tapping home from close range after Mikel Arteta's corner had been flicked on at the near post by Thomas Vermaelen.
Dortmund did pull one back through Shinji Kagawa with the final kick of the game, but it was too late to make a difference as Arsenal made it eight wins and a draw from their last nine matches, following a poor start to the season.
Andre-Villas Boas needs to be given more time
Arsenal are on 11 points, four clear of Greek champions Olympiakos, who stunned Marseille 1-0 in France.
Koannis Fetfatzidis netted a late winner to leave Olympiakos third on six points, one point behind Marseille, with Dortmund bottom of the table on four points.
However, there is a scenario that could see all those teams finish on seven points, if Olympiakos draw with Arsenal and Dortmund defeat Marseille in the final group matches in a fortnight.
Meanwhile, there was drama in Group E, with Bayer Leverkusen scoring a last-gasp winner against Chelsea to virtually secure their place in the last 16 with a 2-1 victory.
An injury time header from defender Manuel Friedrich saw the home side fight back from going a goal down, to inflict Chelsea's fourth defeat in seven matches and increase the pressure on under-fire manager Andre Villas-Boas.
The visitors went ahead three minutes after the break when Didier Drogba turned smartly in the area before firing into the bottom corner of the net.
But the German side levelled in the 73rd minute when substitute Eren Derdiyok headed into an empty net after goalkeeper Petr Cech came off his line to try and intercept Sidney Sam's superb cross.
And Friedrich rose highest from a corner in the dying stages to secure a stunning comeback for Leverkusen.
That result leaves Leverkusen on nine points, one clear of Chelsea and Valencia, who crushed Genk 7-0 at the Mestalla stadium.
Roberto Soldado scored a first-half hat-trick for the Spanish side to leave qualification finely poised.
If Chelsea beat Valencia, or draw 0-0 at Stamford Bridge in their final match, they will qualify, while Leverkusen need to avoid defeat against Genk to also go through.
Defending champions Barcelona had already secured qualification, but a 3-2 victory over Milan at the San Siro ensured they will go through as Group H winners, with Milan in second place.
Barca took a 14th minute lead when Mark van Bommel turned Seydou Keita's cross into his own net but Milan leveled six minutes later when Barca old boy Zlatan Ibrahimovic's shot crept under goalkeeper Victor Valdes.
Lionel Messi restored Barca's lead from the penalty spot in the 31st minute after Alberto Aquilani had fouled Xavi in the area, but once again Milan equalized with a superb individual goal from Kevin-Prince Boateng.
However, Barca were not to be denied and they clinched the win when Messi picked out Xavi, who expertly slotted home.
In the other group game, Czech side Viktoria Plzen secured their first-ever competition win with a 1-0 success at BATE Borisov, to move onto four points, while BATE remain bottom on two points.
Meanwhile, outsiders APOEL Nicosia have become the first Cypriot club to reach the last 16 after a 0-0 Group G draw at Russian side Zenit St Petersburg.
APOEL, who were completely unfancied going into the group stage, held their nerve in a highly-charged atmosphere, which saw play halted twice when smoke bombs covered the whole pitch making it impossible to carry on.
The result means APOEL have nine points from their five matches, one ahead of Zenit and two clear of Porto, who won 2-0 at Shakhtar Donetsk in the other group match.
Porto entertain Zenit in their final group game, with the winners going through alongside APOEL, although a draw would also see Zenit go through.
