The women's draw for this year's Wimbledon Championships are out and there are some talented players that could take the title over the next fortnight. Whether you're lucky enough to score tickets to the event or you're watching from home, here are five athletes look out for on the court.
Serena Williams
The leading lady of tennis is currently on a 31 match winning streak that shows no sign of stopping. The biggest favorite to win the title, Serena Williams has already triumphed at Wimbledon five times since 2002. Some commentators have dubbed her the best player of her generation regardless of gender, and another win at Wimbledon would tie her for major titles with men's record-holder Roger Federer.
Petra Kvitova
The Czech player claimed the top trophy at the All England Club in 2011, but has been on a downward spiral since. However, she is one of the few women who can challenge Serena Williams when it comes to sheer physical strength and stamina. Her playing style is well suited to grass, and if she regains her confidence Kvitova could go all the way.
Interactive: 50 years of women in space
Maria Sharapova
Maria Sharapova lost to Serena Williams in the final of the 2012 Olympic Games, but the Russian player's focus on the court makes her one of the toughest opponents in the game. The third best player in the world is fearlessly aggressive, with good defense skills and stellar speed. With her precision shots from sharp angles, Sharapova is able to overpower her opponents and keep them running across the court.
Laura Robson
Laura Robson first exploded on the tennis scene when she won the junior Wimbledon title aged 14 in 2008. The British player is currently the only teenager in the top 50, but she displays confidence and maturity on the court that go beyond her years. Robson partnered Andy Murray to win the silver medal in the Mixed Doubles at the London Olympics, and she has also recently stared working with Murray's former coach Miles Maclagan. Her dominant serve gives her an edge, and makes her game electrifying.
Sloane Stephens
The rising star of tennis, Sloane Stephens only started playing seriously when she was nine years old, a relatively late age for professional players. However, her powerful baseline forehand has earned her legions of fans, and the 20 -year old stunned Serena Williams by beating her at the Australian Open last year. The American plays an all rounded game suited to any surface, and one of her strongest assets is her exceptional athleticism.
