Barcelona striker Lionel Messi has hailed the performance of his teammates after the Spanish giants beat Manchester United 3-1 at Wembley on Saturday to lift their third Champions League trophy in six seasons.
Messi produced a scintillating performance to enhance his reputation as being the world's greatest player, scoring Barcelona's second goal and tormenting the Manchester United defenders throughout the 90 minutes.
However, the 23-year-old Argentine preferred to pay tribute to the players around him, telling the official UEFA website: "We're very happy to lift another trophy. It was a difficult season, but we showed how good we are.
Champions League crown for Barcelona
"We were the better team. To be the man of the match is the least important thing because it was incredible how we played. We were very good in all areas."
Messi added: "This team is incredible. I think we can't really fully appreciate what we're doing, what we are achieving.
"We want to keep winning trophies and we can keep going further and further. We were superior against Manchester and deserved the win.
"It is another cup for us and I managed to score a goal again. Now we're going on holiday -- after taking the cup home to our people -- then we will start thinking about what we can achieve next season."
Meanwhile, Brazilian international Dani Alves paid tribute to fellow-defender Eric Abidal, who made a remarkable recovery from a liver tumor operation to play against United -- with the Frenchman being handed the honor of lifting the trophy.
"Even before all of this we all said that our biggest victory, our most important trophy, was the recovery of Abi," Alves told UEFA's website.
"We put on a spectacle for everyone who is passionate about football and who loves football -- and I think that people who really like football will be very happy because they have seen a great match."
Barcelona midfielder Sergio Busquets added: "We suffered a bit at the beginning, and at the end, but by then the match was already decided for us.
"I think it was an almost perfect game -- we had lots of possession and moved the ball very well. Thanks to that we managed to win."
