Singer-actress Pia Zadora landed in jail after she allegedly fought with her teenage son when he wouldn't go to bed early Saturday, police said.
Zadora, 61, was charged with domestic violence battery and coercion for allegedly scratching 16-year-old Jordan's ear as she tried to take his cell phone when he dialed 911, according to a Las Vegas Metropolitan Police report.
Jordon told police his mother and her husband -- Las Vegas Police Det. Michael Jeffries -- were drinking alcohol in their home before the incident.
The trouble began around 11 p.m. when his mother said she was tired and she ordered him to bed, the police report said.
"Jordan said he told his mom he wanted to stay outside and talk because it was a weekend night," the report said. Zadora became "upset and angry" and "got the hose and started squirting everyone, insisting that Jordan go to bed and Mike Jr. leave."
She then scratched her husband's face and was "punching and scratching" her 32-year-old stepson, the report said.
Several hours later -- at 4:30 a.m. -- the mother and son "wrestled" over Jordan's cell phone, it said.
"Pia then grabbed him from behind around his head, grabbing his eyes and face, leaving a scratch on his left ear," the report said. "Jordan got away and Pia came up and again grabbed him from behind encircling his neck in the process."
When police arrived, they were not allowed inside the home, but they realized a police officer -- Jeffries -- lived there, the report said.
Two officers found an unlocked door in the rear and entered, the report said. "Metro Police. Come out with your hand up," an officer announced.
"What are you doing in my house?" an unknown male voice replied.
"I then stated that he knew why we were there and to come out so we could talk," the reporting officer wrote.
"Why don't you f--king come back here and get me!" the unknown male shouted, the report said.
The police officers retreated from inside the home and waited for SWAT officers to surround the house, the report said.
Zadora later told police she did not come out because she thought her husband, a detective "would take care of it."
After a couple of hours of sleep -- with the SWAT officers still surrounding her house -- she said she called 911 and operators told her to go outside, which she did.
Zadora's fame is partially based on her involvement in a Hollywood awards scandal in 1982. When the Hollywood Foreign Press Association gave her the Golden Globe best female newcomer award, it triggered allegations that her wealthy then-husband had influenced the selection by entertaining voters at his casino.
CNN's Greg Morrison contributed to this report.
