The family of stricken Formula One star Michael Schumacher "strongly believe" he will make a recovery from the life-threatening injuries he sustained in a skiing accident.
Schumacher has been in a medically-induced coma in a Grenoble hospital since December 29 and a statement on behalf of the family Thursday said he was "still in a waking up process."
It was released a day after a published report in Germany's best-selling newspaper Bild -- which claimed the seven-time world champion had contracted pneumonia.
Schumacher's manager Sabine Kehm has refused to comment on what she termed "speculation" and there is no specific reference to the report in the latest update.
"Michael's family would like to again express their sincere thanks for the continuous sympathy coming from all over the world," it read.
"The good wishes they receive help the family and, we are convinced they also help Michael, who still is in a waking up process.
"As often in such situation no day is like the next. The family is thankful for one's understanding that they would not wish to disclose medical details in order to protect Michael's privacy.
"As assured from the beginning we will continue to communicate any decisive new information on Michael's health state. We are aware that the wake up phase can take a long time.
"The family continues to strongly believe in Michael's recovery and place all their trust in the doctors', nurses' and nursing auxiliaries' team.
"The important thing is not the speed of the recovery but that Michael's heal process progresses in a continuous and controlled way.
The statement if the first official information released since January 30 when it was revealed that Schumacher's sedation had been reduced in order for him to come out of a coma.
The 45-year-old German superstar suffered a severe head trauma while skiing off-piste at the French Alps resort of Meribel.
He has undergone two emergency operations to remove blood clots on his brain and reduce swelling and kept asleep to aid his recovery.
Schumacher's wife Corinna has kept a constant vigil at the hospital since the accident.
He retired for the second and final time from F1 in 2012 after a glittering career with the Benetton, Ferrari and Mercedes teams, bringing him 91 victories in grand prix racing.
Mercedes has a "Keep Fighting Michael" message on its silver livery for the upcoming F1 season which starts next month in Australia and get well messages have flooded in from all over the world.
