A major winter storm walloped the Northeast on Friday, a day after heavy snow closed schools and roads and caused dangerous conditions.
The storm knocked out power to nearly 240,000 homes and businesses in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, slowed traffic and could prompt authorities to cancel up to 1,000 flights at airports serving New York and New Jersey.
The storm also frustrated people such as Lulis Leal, a medical office manager who was working from her home in Cedar Grove, New Jersey. She was planning to help her son move into an apartment when she peered out the window Friday morning to see her car covered in snow.
"I can't even move it out of my driveway," she said. "The snow is up over my knee."
She ventured out amid the snow Thursday, saw several wrecks and added a half-hour to her trip by avoiding a snow-covered hill.
"It's very pretty to look at, but it's like, come on, enough already," she said. "I'm very much looking forward to spring."
The rough weather prompted officials to suspend bus service in northern New Jersey.
About 225,000 homes and businesses were without power Friday in New York, said Jim Denn of the New York State Public Service Commission. The storm left 10,638 homes and businesses without power in New Jersey and knocked out electrical services to about 3,000 homes and businesses in Pennsylvania, officials in those states said.
A snow-covered tree limb fell Thursday in New York's Central Park and killed a 46-year-old man. The New York City Department of Parks and Recreation warned residents to stay out of city parks after the death.
Forecasters said parts of New York state could get up to a foot of snow, and public schools were closed Friday in New York City.
"The heavy, wet snow will be sufficient to bring down trees and power lines and could also cause roof collapses," the National Weather Service said.
The storm is the third to hit the region this month.
Early Friday, American Airlines had canceled 42 flights out of New York, a spokeswoman said. Delta Air Lines canceled 300 flights from airports in New York and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
U.S. Airways had canceled 80 flights from airports in and around New York, a spokesman said.
Steve Coleman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said authorities expect roughly 1,000 flights to be canceled from the three major airports serving New York and parts of New Jersey.
More cancellations were expected for other airlines Friday, according to airport officials.
The storm prompted the cancellation of more than 1,000 flights at New York-area airports Thursday, said Port Authority spokesman John Kelly.
Buried in snow? Send pictures, video
Parts of New York had received from 22 to 30 inches of snow by Thursday evening, the weather service said. Massachusetts was averaging 22 inches across the state. Parts of Pennsylvania had as much as 12 inches. Areas in Vermont received as much as 38 inches of snow.
For some, any more snow was just too much.
"I've just been shoveling," a weary man told CNN affiliate WBRE-TV in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. "And it looks like I'll be doing some more shoveling."
CNN's Emily Anderson and Mark Bixler contributed to this report.
