(CNN Student News) -- October 22, 2013
Several years after he signed it, President Obama's health care reform law remains a topic of intense debate. In Tuesday's program, CNN Student News explores the history of this law and the controversy surrounding it. Plus, we examine some of the science behind hurricane season, and we consider how smog affects cities in China and Mexico.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What challenges might the news media face in covering a wide-ranging, controversial piece of legislation? How might they address these challenges?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. health insurance
2. hurricane season
3. smog
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What problems have been associated with the enrollment website for the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare)? What different perspectives do elected officials have on these problems?
2. When does hurricane season officially end? How does the number of hurricanes so far this year compare to that of previous years?
3. What is unique about the Mexico City hospital building described in today's program?
Discussion Questions:
1. What do you know about the debate over Obamacare? Who do you think might be in favor of this health care reform law? Who do you think might oppose it? What are your thoughts on Obamacare? What do you think are some possible outcomes for the future of this law?
2. Why do you think that meteorologists identify an annual hurricane "season"? What might be the benefits and drawbacks of doing so, if hurricanes can form at any time?
3. Why do you think officials in places like Harbin, China and Mexico City are concerned about smog? How do you think polluted areas could address the issue? What challenges might come with addressing it?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Harbin, China
North America
Mexico City
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
