Baseball superstar Alex Rodriguez isn't going down without a fight. But in the process, the slugger may have let out a dirty little secret.
Tucked deep in the lawsuit Rodriguez filed Monday against Major League Baseball to get his suspension vacated is an exhaustive report about his alleged steroid use. And boy, is it detailed.
The report alleges injections of  banned drugs, secret meetings and big money payments. Part of the 34-page document details Rodriguez's alleged cocktail of banned substances to the milligram.
Some of these accusations have leaked out in recent days as Rodriguez's fight with baseball has gotten uglier and uglier.
But this report, compiled by arbitrator Fredric Horowitz, is a graphic look at the case against Rodriguez.
Trying to save his career
Rodriguez filed his lawsuit Monday in New York's Southern District against Major League Baseball in an effort to get back on the field.
Two days earlier, an arbitration panel ruled that he would serve a 162-game doping suspension, the longest in baseball history.
So Rodriguez sued league Commissioner Bud Selig and even his own union, the Major League Baseball Players Association.
In the lawsuit, Rodriguez's lawyers say the actions against the slugger have been a "carefully orchestrated smear campaign" and the suspension should be vacated.
The lawsuit also alleges that the baseball union did not protect Rodriguez from continual leaks of "prejudicial information" from baseball officials.
The player's union has denied that allegation.
"It is unfortunate that Alex Rodriguez has chosen to sue the Players Association. His claim is completely without merit, and we will aggressively defend ourselves and our members from these baseless charges," said Tony Clark, head of the union.
Aging slugger
All this comes as the clock is ticking for A-Rod. The suspension will not only cost Rodriguez $25 million in salary, it also further clouds the groundbreaking career of a player who'll turn 40 in the 2015 season.
Major League Baseball says Rodriguez is dirty. It says he used three different performance-enhancing drugs in a three-year period and had ties to the now-shuttered Biogenesis clinic in South Florida.
Biogenesis was an anti-aging clinic that MLB said supplied steroids to at least a dozen baseball players.
Rodriguez, fifth on MLB's list of all-time home run leaders, says he didn't use performance-enhancing drugs at that time. He says he has not failed a drug test.
In court documents, his lawyers accused Horowitz of being unfair.
"Horowitz exhibited a manifest disregard for the law," the lawsuit alleged. "He did so in a way which ensured such testimony would be selective and one-sided."
Gummies and food
The Horowitz report seemed to be mostly based on Rodriguez's relationship with Anthony Bosch, who ran the Biogenesis clinic. The two were introduced by Rodriguez's cousin in 2009 or 2010, according to the report.
By late 2010, Rodriguez was a client of Bosch, paying thousands of dollars for banned substances, the report says.
The two became close. They created their own language to camouflage the performance-enhancing drugs. Testosterone cream was called "pink food," and lozenges containing testosterone were called "gummies."
Melted testosterone was called "liquid soup." In 2012, the pair spoke on the phone 53 times and exchanged 556 text messages, the report said.
In one exchange, detailed in the report, Bosch messaged Rodriguez, saying he was going to pick up his "meds." Rodriguez wrote back: "Not meds, dude. Food."
In another message Rodriguez warns Bosch:  "Erase all these messages."
Clearly, somebody didn't.
