Recovery efforts are struggling to meet the needs of flood survivors in Pakistan.
August monsoon rains and severe flooding washed away tens of thousands of homes and killed as many as 1,738 people. The UN estimates that as many as 21 million people have been affected by the flooding.
How you can help? A number of charities are mobilizing medical, shelter and humanitarian aid, responding to the great need for flood survivors' immediate needs.
The UN Refugee Agency is delivering emergency assistance (shelter, tents, blankets, mosquito nets and other life-saving aid) to more than 350,000 people affected by the disaster. They are accepting donations online, by selecting the Pakistan Flood Emergency here. They are also accepting mobile donations by texting'Swat' to 50555 to give $10 dollars.
AmeriCares emergency relief experts are working to send medical assistance and other aid to the flood-affected region in Pakistan. They are accepting online donations as well as phone donations at 1-800-486-HELP (4357)
The American Red Cross, working with its partners in the International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent network, including the Pakistan Red Crescent Society, is sending relief supplies and emergency workers. Donations to online to their Pakistan Relief and Development Fund, or call 1-800-RED CROSS. Monetary donations in pounds can be made to the British Red Cross online or by calling 0845 054 7206 in England.
CARE is supporting the distribution of emergency supplies and providing aid to health teams and mobile clinics in the affected communities in Pakistan. You can help by making an online donation.
Catholic Relief Services is currently organizing shipments of humanitarian aid to Balochistan, one of the affected areas. They are also sending emergency shelter kits and hygiene supplies to other flood-affected regions in Pakistan. Donations to their Emergency Relief fund are being accepted online and by phone at 1-800-736-3467.
Concern Worldwide US is responding by sending emergency teams to the region, and they have launched their Pakistan Emergency Flood Appeal. They are working to provide about 9,000 families with kitchen sets and hygiene kits, clean water, temporary sanitation, and dry rations of food. Online donations can be made dollars, euros and pounds.
Church World Service is distributing food packages and shelter material for flood-affected families in Balochistan, Khan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, as well as mobilizing a health unit to offer emergency medical assistance in Mansehra. Your donation can be made online and by phone at 1-800.297-1516.
Direct Relief International is providing emergency medical aid to healthcare partners responding to disaster in Pakistan. Donations to their Emergency Response fund can me made online and by calling 1-800-676-1638.
Doctor's Without Borders is supporting basic health units in the flood-affected areas of Pakistan. The organization is also helping with water distribution to health structures, as well as hygiene products, cooking sets and other supplies. They are planning to send additional personnel and mobilizing resources to assist relief efforts. Contributions can be made online and by phone at 1-888-392-0392.
The International Rescue Committee has been working in Pakistan for the past 30 years, in many of the areas directly affected by this current crisis. They are focused on water and sanitation, disease prevention, and the distribution of hygiene kits and the tools flood victims will need to rebuild. They are also mobilizing workers for cash for work programs as a way to generate income. You can support the IRC's efforts in Pakistan online or by calling 877 REFUGEE.
Islamic Relief USA is providing food and water for 700 families In Noshara, distributing emergency supplies and working with the United Nations World Food Program to distribute food to 2,000 families in Bakhtiarabad. Islamic Relief has launched a campaign to aid the victims of the floods, which you can support by making an online donation.
Mercy Corps is accepting donations to provide flood victims in the hard-hit Swat Valley with water, food and tools to clean up and rebuild. You can donate online.
Operation Blessing International is sending emergency medical relief teams to Peshawar, Pakistan. Working with their disaster relief partner charity Humedica, OBI will offer medical treatment and distribute food, clean drinking water and emergency building supplies to thousands in need from this flood. Support for OBI's disaster relief efforts can be made online or by calling 1-800-730-2537.
Oxfam Great Britain is looking to provide the needed temporary shelter, clean drinking water and toilets to help avert a public health catastrophe. They are accepting online donations in pounds, euros and dollars, and can be reached by telephone internationally at +44 (0) 1865 47 2602. In England, you can text 'DONATE' to 70066 to make a donation of 5 pounds to their Pakistan Floods Appeal.
Save the Children is providing food and water, shelter, sanitation and other immediate needs for the families and communities affected by this disaster. They are accepting donations to their Pakistan Children in Emergency Fund online as well as by phone by calling 1-800-728-3843.
ShelterBox distributed hundreds of ShelterBoxes to families rescued from the flood in the Punjab and Khyber Pukhtunkhwa (KPK) regions. Find out how to become part of the ShelterBox Team or help the efforts by making an online donation in the UK and the US.
SOS Children's Villages supports the children of Pakistan through different programs across the country and offers care of lone children following the disaster, as they did after the Kashmir Earthquake. You can make a direct donation in dollars or pounds and you can sponsor a child in Pakistan here.
UNICEF's Pakistan office is providing assistance for water and sanitation, health, and nutrition. They are distributing clean water and water purification tablets to prevent water-borne diseases and will continue to asses the situation to determine if further fundraising appeal is needed. If you are interested in becoming a UNICEF volunteer click here or support flood-relief efforts by making an online donation.
World Food Programme is making food distributions to 35,000 families affected by the flooding in Northwestern Pakistan. WFP Pakistan plans to assist up to 150,000 families over the next few months as access to the affected areas improves. You can help by making an online donation in either euros, dollars, pounds or yens.
World Vision is working to distribute food and clean water to the affected communities in Pakistan. They have created the World Vision's Flood Relief Fund which you can support it by making an online donation.
