January 24, 2014
Our last show of the week covers violent protests in the Ukrainian capital, a conference of mayors in the U.S. capital, and cyber crime that could affect some shoppers' capital. We also look into what the NFL plans to do regarding the Super Bowl if a Farmer's Almanac forecast is accurate.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
If you were following your local mayor to the National Conference of Mayors, how would you cover the story? Whom might you interview and what topics might you cover?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What U.S. government agency's controversial surveillance program was recently addressed by President Obama?
2. What important event in the Civil Rights Movement included Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech?
3. What is the name of the spacecraft that European Space Agency scientists "woke up" this week?
4. Who is the leader of the country where the upcoming Winter Olympic Games will be held?
5. What building, at a height of 1,776 feet, is the tallest in the U.S.?
6. In what city, known for its neutrality, did diplomats gather this week to discuss Syria's civil war?
7. What elected position usually serves as the chief executive of a city?
8. What Caribbean island nation's bobsledding team was once the subject of a Disney movie?
9. In what state will this year's Super Bowl be held?
10. What does 13-year-old McClain Hermes collect and distribute to people in need?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
