Tiger Woods' return to golf proved to be short-lived when the former world No. 1 pulled out of the prestigious Players Championship after only nine holes of Thursday's opening round.
The American was making his comeback after suffering knee and Achilles injuries during the Masters at Augusta last month, but those problems recurred from his first shot at Sawgrass.
The 35-year-old, trying to win his first tournament since the scandal over his extra-marital affairs broke in late 2009, sent his tee drive wide of the fairway and bogeyed the hole.
He dropped three more shots at the fourth hole and another at the fifth, and walked off the course in Florida's Ponte Vedra Beach after a bogey at nine left him six over the card.
Injured Woods faces 'weeks' on sidelines
"The knee acted up and then the Achilles followed after that and then the calf started cramping up. Everything started getting tight, so it's just a whole chain reaction," Woods told the PGA Tour's website.
"This morning I felt fine during the warm-up, and then as I played, it progressively got worse."
Woods had been confident after playing nine holes on Tuesday, his first on-course action since finishing fourth at Augusta.
"Oh yeah, the knee is much better, no doubt. The Achilles is better as well. So I'm here playing," he said after that practice effort.
Woods also pulled out of the $9.5 million tournament last year in the final round, due to a neck injury. He won it for the first and only time in 2001.
The Players Championship is the most lucrative on the PGA Tour and is often referred to as golf's "fifth major" outside the Masters, the U.S. and British Opens and the PGA Championship.
The continuing injury problems mean Woods is battling to be fit for the second major this season, the U.S. Open at Congressional Country Club in Maryland from June 13-19.
He has been revamping his swing under the tutelage of coach Sean Foley, but is still having problems with the same left knee that required surgery after he seriously injured it during his triumph at the 2008 U.S. Open.
Meanwhile, Nick Watney claimed a one-shot lead at the Players Championship, shooting eight-under-par 64 in his opening round on Thursday.
The 30-year-old American, seeking his second title this year and fourth PGA success overall, birdied his first three holes after starting at the 10th tee then gave back two shots at the par-four 14th.
He immediately bounced back with another birdie, then an eagle three at the second preceded a run of four birdies in five holes before he bogeyed at his penultimate green.
However, his ninth birdie at the last gave Watney a slim advantage over compatriot Lucas Glover, who won the Wells Fargo Championship at Quail Hollow on Sunday.
Veteran Mark O'Meara shared third place with fellow American David Toms after both shot 66, while world No. 2 Martin Kaymer was tied for fifth on 67 with U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell, South Africa's Rory Sabbatini and Sweden's Fredrik Jacobson.
World No. 3 Luke Donald was in a big group tied for 13th on 69, while fourth-ranked Phil Mickelson was back in 44th after a 71.
