(InStyle.com) -- In an effort to protect the planet, many people are looking for ways to reduce waste, reuse and recycle. Here's how celebrities take on the challenge.
Actress Charlize Theron uses products made from recycled bottles.
Charlize Theron
"I like Endstar [makers of parkas, tents and sleeping bags]. The stuff is durable -- and made out of Return Textile fabric, which is partly created from recycled bottles."
Julia Roberts
When the Oscar winner takes her cup of joe on the road, she carries it in a reusable mug. To tote yours in style, use leak-proof wide-mouth 8.6 oz stainless steel thermal bottles.
Maggie Gyllenhaal
"Peter [Sarsgaard] has taught me a lot about passive solar energy. For example, if your house faces south, it gets all the sun and you can heat it much more efficiently."
Salma Hayek
The actress took a shine to a stunning tabletop bowl handcrafted by artisans in Nepal. Woven from discarded food wrappers, the bowl is a chic reworking of non-biodegradable waste.
Kim Raver
"My husband and I want the house we're building to be all green. To start, our energy will be solar."
Parker Posey
"I don't run the water too long when I wash my dishes. I also have a reusable bag from Trader Joe's that I use when shopping for groceries so I don't waste paper or plastic."
Follow Parker Posey's lead and grab a pretty reusable tote such as the 100% recyclable option by Tote Le Monde.
Courtney Love
"I have green power at home. I also use recycled toilet paper even though it's not the softest."
Laura Dern
"We painted every room in our house with Bioshield [solvent-free] paints, which smell amazing. And the whole family wears Green Toe shoes by Simple. They are made from recycled materials and are most comfy."
Sharon Lawrence
"I seriously consider a political candidate's environmental record before giving him or her my vote. You can get that info from the League of Conservation Voters at lcv.org."
Nicollette Sheridan
"All my cleaning products are eco-friendly. I especially like Mrs. Meyer's because they're biodegradable, cruelty-free and natural."
Alicia Silverstone
To save energy, the actress uses the laundry line she got as a birthday present to dry her clothes. "The sun does all the work, and it makes me feel like I live in Italy. I love it!"
Courteney Cox
The former Friends star enjoys Little Twig, the extra mild unscented bath line, which is sulfate- and paraben-free, and gentle enough for her daughter, Coco, 3. Return four of the recyclable containers and get a reward for keeping the planet clean: a 30 percent discount online. E-mail to a friend
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2009 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
