Dutchman Edgar Davids has lifted the European Champions League trophy, won league titles in Italy and the Netherlands and played in a World Cup semifinal against Brazil in 1998.
So why has a soccer star like Davids, who won 74 international caps for the Netherlands between 1994 and 2005, decided to become joint head coach of Barnet, who are currently rock bottom of the lowest tier of professional in England.
"I'm happy to explore my possibilities and share my knowledge and experience with Barnet Football Club," the 39-year-old told the London club's official website.
"I am very excited about the challenge ahead."
Blog: Does international soccer need a shake up?
After a playing career which spanned two decades and saw Davids strut his stuff at the San Siro and the Nou Camp, the one-time midfield dynamo will now be pacing the touchline of Barnet's 6,000-capacity Underhill Stadium in north London.
In addition to his coaching responsibilities, Davids also hopes to make a playing return for "The Bees" as soon as possible.
Barnet would be the third English team Davids -- who was nicknamed "The Pitbull" in recognition of his fiesty playing style -- has turned out for following two years with Tottenham Hotspur between 2005 and 2007 and a brief spell with second-tier Crystal Palace in 2010.
A spell in English football's lower reaches is in stark contrast to previous stages of Davids' career, following stints with Ajax, AC Milan, Barcelona and Juventus.
"I am delighted to welcome Edgar to our club," said Mark Robson, the current Barnet head coach who will now job share with Davids.
"His experience as a player throughout his illustrious career will be a massive benefit to all our players and I look forward to forming a strong partnership with him".
Davids is also known for the goggles he sports while playing, a necessity due to him suffering from the eye disease glaucoma.
Barnet has spent the majority of its history at the lower end of English football, winning the Conference -- the division immediately below England's top four professional leagues -- on two occasions.
