Lake Louise specialist Aksel Lund Svindal secured his fifth Super-G win at the Canadian ski resort Sunday to put down an early marker in an Olympic season.
The Norwegian made the most of his experience on the lower part of the course to record a time of one minute 28.53 seconds -- 0.38 faster than second placed Matthias Mayer of Austria.
Svindal was winning at Lake Louise for the second straight year and his 22nd World Cup victory has taken him past Kjetil Andre Aamodt's Norwegian record.
I think it's cool," he said of beating the record.
"It is something to know that my idol is at home and that I beat his record. I will call him later and I will see what he says. I think he must have some mixed feelings."
The win has also left him top of the overall World Cup standings, his cause helped when American hope Ted Ligety skied out on the top part of the course.
Svindal, a four-time World Cup champion in the Super-G, will also be defending his Olympic title in Sochi next February and on this early form will be favorite for gold again.
Only fourth in Saturday's downhill behind Italy's Dominik Paris, Svindal was behind Mayer at the mid section before powering to the finish.
Another Austrian, Georg Streitberger, occupied the final podium position.
Six of Svindal's 22 wins have come at Lake Louise with Super-G success previously in 2005, 2007, 2011 and 2012.
American Bode Miller continued his comeback to the World Cup circuit by taking 24th place, just ahead of Paris, who was unable to repeat his heroics on a technically demanding course, shrouded in fog.
On the women's circuit, there was a first giant slalom success for 29-year-old Swede Jessica Lindell-Vikarby.
She held off the challenge of precocious American teenager Mikaela Shiffrin by just nine hundredths of a second over two legs at Beaver Creek in Colorado.
The race on the famous Birds of Prey course had a dramatic ending as 18-year-old Shiffrin, second last to go on the second run, took the lead from Tina Weirather of Liechtenstein.
But Lindell-Vikarby kept her nerve to disappoint the home crowd, who included many of Shiffrin's family.
Earlier, Lara Gut's bid for a third win of the Beaver Creek weekend came to an end when she skied out in the first leg.
Switzerland's Gut had won Friday's downhill and Saturday's Super-G.
