Tomas Berdych has launched a scathing attack on the time limit rule in tennis following his victory against Germany's Tobias Kamke at the Dubai Open Wednesday.
The World No.6 is a fierce critic of the new 25-second time rule, which has reduced the permitted pause in between rallies by five seconds.
The Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP), which runs the men's tour, introduced the change at the start of the year in a bid to give umpires greater powers.
Czech Berdych, who lost out in the final of the Marseille Open last Sunday, has been warned against time wasting on several occasions in recent weeks.
Federer eyes grand slam titles in 2013
The new rule is supposed to make the game more entertaining for spectators and speed up a sport where the average contest has only 20 minutes of action in an hour.
But Berdych, who was clearly suffering with fatigue following his exertions 4,800 kilometers away in France, says the rule needs modifying.
"I don't like it. I'm not a fan of it. I don't see any single reason why to have this rule," he told reporters.
"What could be positive on this? What could work? What could be advantage?
"I get like a six or seven (warnings) in Chennai and then I did not get one in Marseille and now I just get only warning. So I'm improving.
Tsonga and Ferrer battle to title wins
"It should be clearer what's going on, because the referee has so much power on you.
"He can do whatever he wants. If you have like 25 (seconds) and he has a bad day, or he doesn't like you, it's 24 and you go.
"I mean, it's so simple. Let's put the clock there and then everybody goes by the clock. Simple as that if they want to go straight."
Berdych clearly struggled to adapt to the heat and wind in the Gulf, saving 12 break points and dropping serve twice before prevailing 7-5 6-1 to make the last eight.
Elsewhere, Russia's Nikolay Davydenko reached the quarterfinals with a 6-4 7-6 win over Victor Hanescu of Romania.
But third seed Mikhail Youhzny suffered a shock 6-4 6-4 defeat in his clash with qualifier Daniel Brands.
The qualifier, who reached the semifinals of the Qatar Open, will now take on Argentina's Juan Martin del Potro.
World No.1 Novak Djokovic will play Italy's Andreas Seppi following a straight sets win over Roberto Bautista.
How women cracked tennis' glass ceiling
Meanwhile, top seed and former World No.1 Caroline Wozniacki was dumped out of the Malaysia Open Wednesday following a shock defeat by qualifier Wang Qiang.
Wozniacki, who had been suffering with a high temperature Tuesday, looked in clear discomfort during the 2-6 7-6 6-1 defeat.
"I tried my best but I just didn't have energy. I didn't take my opportunities," the world number 10 told reporters.
"I called for the doctor and the physio to massage my legs. Not much more they could do. I hope to come back again next year."
Wang, who is ranked 189th in the world, revealed she was keen to take advantage of Wozniacki's problems.
"I tried to make her run more to take advantage of her illness and it paid off. This is the best win of my career and it will give me more confidence," the 21-year-old told reporters.
