Victor Dubuisson saw off a challenge from Justin Rose and Tiger Woods to claim the Turkish Airlines Open in Antalya on Sunday.
After producing a spectacular round of 63 on Saturday, the Frenchman showed that he could do steady too, holding his nerve as a gaggle of golfing superstars waited to snatch the €848,930 ($1.1 million) prize from under his nose.
Read more: Dubuisson goes it alone in Turkey
The 23-year-old shot a three-under par final round of 69 taking him to 24-under par, two strokes clear of Welshman Jamie Donaldson and four clear of U.S. Open champion Rose and Woods, who tied for third on 20 under.
Rose, who finished with a round of 65, was first to apply the pressure on Sunday picking up six shots in the opening nine to move to within a shot of Dubuisson at one stage. But two dropped shots in the closing holes saw the Englishman lose momentum just at the wrong time.
Woods, on the other hand, saved his best for last, making a late surge which saw him pick up four shots in the final six holes to finish with a round of 67. Donaldson came closest to unseating Dubuisson with a brilliant round of 63 which included a hole-in-one at the par-three 16th.
Read more: 'Dorky' Woods reveals why Vonn is a good match
The ace saw the Welshman briefly tie the lead, but with three birdies in the last four holes, Dubuisson eased clear once again, rounding off his maiden European Tour in style with a birdie at the last.
"I don't know how to describe it. Now I don't realise what's happening. I felt so much pressure on the last hole," Dubuisson said, EuropeanTour.com reported.
"Holing this putt on 17 was like; it was incredible. It was incredible, and the birdie on 18, it's a bonus. But even on the last putt, I was feeling so much stress. After this day, it was the longest day on the course that I've ever had. I'm very proud of what I did."
Joy down under for Scott
Meanwhile at the Australian PGA Championship, Adam Scott sealed a four-shot victory at Royal Pines, on Queensland's Gold Coast.
The Masters champion claimed his first home PGA title with a final round of 67 to finish on 14-under par, four clear of Rickie Fowler who fired a final round 68.
"I'm really proud, the PGA means a lot to me and my family and I think this is an incredible win," said Scott.
"The PGA has been so involved in my family (father Phil is a PGA Professional) for a really long time, and it being the one I hadn't won down here I really wanted it bad," the 33-year-old added.
"It's a special win to me, I felt an incredible support from the crowd, it was nice seeing them getting so excited for me to get a win."
