(CNN Student News) -- October 2, 2013
With the possibility of a partial U.S. government shutdown now a reality, CNN Student News explains why this doesn't affect paychecks for members of Congress. We also report on some of the world's most valuable brands. And after exploring the Spanish origins of some common English words, we make a Career Connection with a textile director and discover there's more to the fashion world than glitz and glamour.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might a report on companies' values be useful to a news audience?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. furlough
2. brand
3. tributary
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. About how many federal government employees were furloughed by the government shutdown? How many continued working?
2. What are some English words that are derived from the Spanish language?
3. What are the main responsibilities of the textile director featured in the program?
Discussion Questions:
1. Do you think Congress and the president should take specific action regarding the government shutdown? If so, what? If not, why not? What do you think might be the short-term and long-term effects of this shutdown?
2. Why do you think that some company brands have become household names, while others have not? How might having a recognizable brand impact a company, its value, its shareholders and its customers?
3. Why might it be important to know the source and destination of a tributary or river?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Chesapeake Bay; Washington, D.C.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
