A man who is accused of trying to board an Air Jamaica flight at Orlando International Airport with apparent bomb-making materials was taken into custody Tuesday.
Witnesses say the man arrested Tuesday was "rocking left and right and up and down."
Officials said Kevin Brown, a Jamaican national, was acting strangely and caught the attention of an air safety officer at the Florida airport.
Brown was arrested on charges of carrying a weapon or explosives onto a plane, according to the FBI.
The bureau said Brown, who is in his early 30s, had baggage that concealed two galvanized pipes, end caps, two containers of BBs, batteries, two containers with an unknown liquid, a laptop and bomb-making literature.
"He looked rather crazy," a passenger told CNN affiliate WKMG. "He was rocking left and right and up and down."
Transportation Safety Administration officials said Brown caught the eye of a "behavior identification officer" about noon Tuesday as Brown approached a ticket counter for his planned flight to Jamaica.
Lee Kair, the TSA's federal security director in Orlando, said the materials in his bags posed no danger to other travelers.
Initial record checks indicate that Brown was in the United States legally, the FBI said.
The FBI and the Orlando Police Department are investigating, Kair said.
Airport officials say several ticket counters were shut down during the incident and 11 flights were delayed. Airport spokeswoman Carolyn Fennell said Air Jamaica, Air Canada, West Jet and Frontier flights were among those delayed.
"Things are slowly returning to normal," Fennell said, adding that the terminal where Brown was apprehended was operating normally by 3 p.m.
Kair said that behavior identification officers like the one who spotted Brown are plain-clothes officers trained to watch for suspicious behavior at airports.
"When people are doing things that are deceptive, they exhibit behaviors that are involuntary," he said. "Our officers are very well trained to identify these behaviors."
Brown is scheduled for an initial appearance in federal court in Orlando on Wednesday. E-mail to a friend
