(CNN)  -- For video game junkies, blockbuster titles like Cold War-era shooter "Call of Duty: Black Ops" and post-apocalyptic role-player "Fallout: New Vegas" make 2010 a hard act to follow.
But 2011 is shaping up to be a pretty good year for games, too.
From jaw-dropping shooter "Rage" to animated fighting game "Marvel vs. Capcom 3," there are many promising releases coming in the months ahead. Here's a look at some games to look forward to this year.
The impending deluge begins this month -- traditionally a slow period for new releases -- with the combination platform-hopping, game-building "LittleBigPlanet 2," which lets you create and share new levels or challenges.
Also arriving in January is sci-fi horror epic "Dead Space 2," which forces space cadets to survive a maze of high-tech corridors crawling with misshapen monsters.
Hybrid puzzle and arcade game "Lost in Shadow," wherein players manipulate illuminated objects to make shadows take on new angles and forms, will also make its debut.
February will bring "Portal 2," a puzzle game that demands you solve challenges by teleporting items and individuals between locations. Like "Angry Birds," the game allows fans to casually experiment with physics.
Over-the-top, first-person shooter "Bulletstorm," a tongue-in-cheek, hyper-macho run-n-gun outing that offers numerous ways to creatively off opponents, will hit stores shortly thereafter.
Also coming next month is "Blade Runner" homage "Deus Ex: Human Revolution," which lets you solve a futuristic global conspiracy through stealth, combat, hacking or the use of mechanical limbs.
Ditto for "Killzone 3," a stunning sci-fi shooter game that promises to demonstrate how powerful the PlayStation 3 can be with its 3-D TV-ready effects and support for motion controls.
Fast forward to March, and we get the long-awaited "Mortal Kombat" fighting game series reboot, as well as sci-fi run-n-gun extravaganza "Crysis 2," which hopes to raise the bar for graphic fidelity. "Dragon Age II," a sequel to the grim and gritty fantasy epic, will make a violent appearance as well.
Massively multiplayer online sword and sorcery tale "Final Fantasy XIV" is expected to be released on PlayStation 3, joining its already-released PC cousin.
Actual launch dates become murkier further out, but upcoming titles for the rest of the year appear no less intriguing. Fans of stealth action can look forward to "Metal Gear Solid Rising" and "Batman: Arkham City," a sequel to the best-selling superhero action-adventure "Batman: Arkham Asylum."
Those who prefer a good mystery have "L.A. Noire." Epic firefights abound in "SOCOM 4: U.S. Navy SEALs," "Duke Nukem Forever," and "Gears of War 3."
Sports enthusiasts will enjoy completely new spins on familiar pastimes in "Mario Sports Mix" and "NASCAR: The Game 2011."
There are even a few hidden treasures for the role-playing crowd in "Hunted: Demon's Forge" and "Dungeon Siege III."
It all adds up to a potential banner year for console and PC game releases. You might consider putting some holiday money aside for later in 2011, when the real gifts arrive.
