An early goal from Theo Walcott gave Arsenal a vital 1-0 victory over Udinese in the first leg of their Champions League final qualifying round tie at The Emirates.
England international Walcott timed his run into the area perfectly to volley home Aaron Ramsey's fourth-minute right-wing cross from close range, to give Arsene Wenger's side a vital advantage to take into the second leg in northern Italy next week.
Arsenal came into the match on the back of a trying week, which saw captain Cesc Fabregas leave for Barcelona and more rumors surface of Samir Nasir's impending transfer to Manchester City.
What now for Arsenal and Fabregas?
The Gunners had to field a make-shift side with Nasri and new captain Robin Van Persie both suspended and key midfielder Jack Wilshere injured.
To compound matters, Wenger himself had to watch from the stands because of a one-match UEFA ban.
But despite a few nervy moments, primarily when Udinese captain Antonio Di Natale struck the crossbar with a long-range strike, Arsenal held on.
And Walcott nearly added a second goal late on, forcing a superb save from goalkeeper Samir Handanovic.
There were four other matches played on Tuesday evening, with Lyon coming from behind to beat Russian side Rubin Kazan 3-1 at the Stade de Gerland.
Rubin are looking to reach the group stages for a third successive year and they took a third minute lead when Vladimir Dyadyun turned in Bebras Natcho's right-wing corner.
However, the French side levelled seven minutes later when Bafetimbi Gomis got in between two defenders to finish a Michel Bastos cross.
And they went ahead five minutes before half-time when a Gomis cross-shot from the left found the net off defender Saba Kvirkvelia.
Lyon sealed their victory 19 minutes from time when Jimmy Briand headed home a Kim Kallstrom corner.
Meanwhile, an entertaining match in the Netherlands saw FC Twente draw 2-2 at home to Benfica, a result that leaves the Portuguese giants favorites to reach the group stage.
Luuk de Jong fired the hosts in a sixth minute lead, but Benfica leveled when Paraguay striker Oscar Cardozo curled home a superb equalizer.
Benfica led at the break after a fine flowing move saw Nolito score from close range but, with 10 minutes left, Bryan Ruiz headed home for Twente as the match finished all-square.
The other two matches saw BATE Borisov of Belarus draw 1-1 at home to Austrian side Sturm Graz, while Czech champions Viktoria Plzen secured a superb 3-1 win at FC Copenhagen of Denmark.
