(CNN Student News) -- November 22, 2013
In Friday's show, CNN Student News explains the U.S. Senate's so-called "nuclear option" and what the long-term implications might be. We also report on a proposed security deal between the U.S. and Afghanistan. And on the 50th anniversary of President Kennedy's assassination, we hear how the details of that fateful day are etched in the minds of some Americans.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What value do eyewitness accounts of historic events have in a news report? What are the limitations of these accounts?
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. Who was the youngest person to be elected U.S. president?
2. What country recently made a change to its controversial "one-child" policy?
3. Princeton University debated offering students an unapproved vaccine against what disease?
4. What award did President Obama give to 16 people on Wednesday?
5. What word did the Oxford Dictionaries choose as their 2013 Word of the Year?
6. What is the destination of NASA's MAVEN mission?
7. Who recently won his sixth NASCAR Sprint Cup championship?
8. What continent is home to Victoria Land and the Weddell Sea?
9. Which U.S. governmental body voted to change its rules regarding votes on executive and judicial nominees?
10. Who is the current U.S. ambassador to Japan?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Afghanistan
North America
Dallas, Texas
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
