Hillary Clinton offered her firm backing Thursday of President Barack Obama's plan to issue an executive action to overhaul the nation's immigration system.
"I support the President¹s decision to begin fixing our broken immigration system and focus finite resources on deporting felons rather than families," Clinton said in a statement emailed to reporters after Obama finished his prime time address on the topic. "I was hopeful that the bipartisan bill passed by the Senate in 2013 would spur the House of Representatives to act, but they refused even to advance an alternative."
Clinton went on to argue that although Congress wasn't able to "finish the job by passing permanent bipartisan reform," she is "confident that people of good will and good faith can yet find common ground."
Shortly after the speech ended, Clinton sent a tweet with a similar message.
"Thanks to POTUS for taking action on immigration in the face of inaction," she tweeted. "Now let's turn to permanent bipartisan reform. #ImmigrationAction"
The fact that Clinton -- the prohibitive favorite for the Democrats' nomination in 2016 -- sent a paper statement on the issue is in itself telling. Since leaving the State Department in early 2013, Clinton has rarely issued statements to reporters in favor of using her high profile speeches to address issues in the news.
But immigration has been an issue that followed Clinton for much of the last year. After telling NPR earlier this year that she would support looking at deportations for immigrant children coming to the United States, the former Secretary of State's appearances became frequent venues for immigration protests.
"I think it should be looked at as part of an overall package," she told NPR in July.
In North Carolina and then again a few days later in Maryland, protesters interrupted Clinton's stump speech to call for her to come out against deportations.
"Choose families over politics," read one sign in Maryland. The protesters were usually from United We Dream, a pro-immigration reform group.
Clinton responded in Maryland by stating that immigration is an "important issue."
"If they would have just waited a little while, I was getting to the DREAM Act," Clinton said. "I am really proud to be in a state who has opened the doors of opportunity to students who work and study hard regardless of their parents immigration status."
