For most of the day, Jason Biggs wasn't letting the Twitterverse judge whether his sarcastic quip about the Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 crash was funny.
The "Orange is the New Black" actor stirred a Twitter storm after news reports confirmed that a Boeing 777 crashed in Ukraine with almost 300 people on board. Biggs joked, "Anyone wanna buy my Malaysian Airlines frequent flier miles?"
The backlash came quickly with some saying the remark was too soon, and the event too sensitive, to joke about.
"Not cool, Not funny Mr. @JasonBiggs," @jorgemps wrote.
Sharliq Grant @SGofDaRuSH said, "too soon to joke man."
Biggs originally blasted back at his social media critics, unleashing an expletive-ridden tirade.
"Hey all you 'too soon' a--holes- it's a f--king joke. You don't have to think it's funny, or even be on my twitter page at all."
"Truly- you losers are literally trying to find s--t to get angry about. Channel your issues elsewhere," he continued.
"The idea that I wouldnt have any empathy 4 the victims or their families because I make a joke is absolutely ridiculous. U know that, right?"
"It's saddest for the victims and their families, obviously. But Malaysia Airlines is apparently a GREAT airline. Gonna be tough to recover."
Then in the evening, Biggs' previous comments about the incident were deleted and he issued a four-tweet apology:
1) Hey all- ok, so- I am deleting my previous tweets. People were offended, and that was not my intent. Sorry to those of you that were.
2) This is obviously a horrible tragedy, and everyone-including myself- is sad and angry about it. Sending positive thoughts to the
3) victims and their families. P.S. No one is making me send these tweets- I simply understand that my comments might have come off
4). as insensitive and ill-timed. For that, I apologize.
Biggs, who first became famous in 1999's "American Pie," has a long history of controversial tweets, including a series of sexually explicit comments directed at Republican politicians and their wives during the 2012 election, which he defended at that time, too.
Blogging for Esquire last year, Biggs explained why he loves his Twitter haters.
"You know what really gets me off? The hate. Oh, how I love the hate. Weird? Perhaps. But to me, watching people get riled up over the most trivial things is pure fking gold."
Did surface-to-air missile take down Malaysia Airlines Flight 17?
U.S. official: Missile shot down Malaysia Airlines plane
Malaysia Airlines crash prompts flight detours
See more news content about comedians at CNN Comedy.
CNN's Pete Janos contributed to this report.
