The Calling's lead singer, Alex Band, told police he was abducted, beaten and robbed Sunday, just hours before his group announced a comeback effort.
Band suffered "a fractured lower spine, 15 stitches to lower chin, three broken teeth and is bruised on his side and stomach from the baton beating," his publicist said Monday.
The singer countered speculation that the attack was related to his drug use or a hoax.
"This just happened to me. I didn't kidnap myself, or beat the crap out of myself. So the whole hoax thing is honestly kind of disgusting to even think about, or hear," Band told CNN.
He told investigators he was walking down a street in downtown Lapeer, Michigan -- where his group had just performed at a music festival -- about 3 a.m. Sunday when two men forced him into a blue minivan, according to a police statement.
"Alex was grabbed by his shirt and hit from behind and lost his footing," publicist Brad Taylor said. "He was beaten with a police baton with a gun pointed to his face demanding Band's 'Hollywood money.' After Band fought back, he was cornered in the van with gun to his face."
Band picked up the story from there.
"At this point, I was crying, I'll admit it, I was scared, and I was pleading for my life, but then it occurred to me. I was like, 'You know, I just found like a couple of weeks ago that I'm going to be a dad,'" he said.
The assailant responded, "It's your lucky day," Band said.
"He kicked me out of the car onto the train tracks, and that's when I hit the tracks and I fractured the bone in my lower spine, and I was unconscious and they left," said the singer.
According to his publicist, Band was left for dead at a local railroad track in Lapeer.
Earlier, Band issued a statement to CNN about the incident.
"I never thought my unborn child would be my savior," Band said. "I am grateful to be alive and I know that I am destined for bringing my music back to my fans."
The singer "reported being assaulted, robbed and dropped off on another street," according to Lapeer Police Sgt. Craig Gormley.
Another band member picked Band up and took him to the emergency room at McLaren Lapeer Region hospital, Gormley said. He was treated and released, he said.
Police, who interviewed Band at the hospital, are investigating, Gormley said.
Word of Band's alleged abduction hit online celebrity websites Monday morning at the same time entertainment reporters received an e-mail from a publicity firm announcing that The Calling is coming back "stronger than ever" after "fighting through trials and addictions."
The singer has "brought together a new band and has a fresh look on his past hits like 'Wherever You Will Go,'" the news release said.
Band "was at the height of music stardom in the early 2000s pop world but took a severe, almost death drop on a roller-coaster of a ride by almost dying from drug abuse combined with the struggle of personal relationships," the release said.
"Having a global hit was amazing, but due to my personal struggles and relationships, I was robbed of the enjoyment of being on the top of a musical high of a career," it quotes Band as saying. "I dropped everything to fight for my ailing wife, followed by a divorce, which equaled with a substance abuse problem that almost took my life. Coming out of my addiction with yet another struggle is something of a freedom. This second chance and has given me great fodder for our new music."
The rock/pop group is "in the midst of signing a major record deal and are setting up a global tour to bring forth their music to a worldwide fervent fan base," it said.    
"He is jumping back into finishing the record to help in the healing process and is resting for optimal healing," his spokesman said.
The comeback announcement would normally get little attention in the media, but coverage of Band's alleged abduction put The Calling back into the headlines.
CNN's Denise Quan and Tory Dunnan contributed to this report.
