Barcelona stayed five points clear of arch-rivals Real Madrid as both secured away wins in Spain's La Liga on Saturday.
Barcelona reached 50 goals for the league season as Pedro Rodriguez scored in the narrow 1-0 win over Sporting Gijon.
Real, who were missing the suspended Cristiano Ronaldo, kept pace as Karim Benzema scored twice in the 3-1 win over Deportivo La Coruna.
Esteban Granero headed Real ahead after 13 minutes in the Riazor where Real had not won for nearly 20 years.
Striker Raul went close for Real with a volley before midfielder Guti produced a moment of magic to set up Benzema for his first.
Bearing down on goal, he opted to backheel the ball into the path of Benzema who shot home.
Deportivo, who are challenging for a Champions League place pulled one back with a late Ivan Riki penalty, but Benzema sealed the three points in injury time.
"I'm very happy for the win because traditionally it's a very difficult ground for Real Madrid. The team have played a very good game and we are pleased," said Real coach Manuel Pellegrini.
But defending champions Barcelona are keeping up a fierce pace and in an earlier match saw Pedro put them ahead on the half hour mark as Andres Iniesta played him through with a fine pass.
Barca should have added to their tally in the second half but Pedro and Lionel Messi both missed comfortable chances.
In other matches on Saturday evening, a Luis Garcia strike saw relegation strugglers Espanyol beat European aspirants Athletic Bilbao 1-0.
The result moves Espanyol six points clear of the relegation zone while injury-hit Athletic have now lost back to back games.
Sunday's program sees a crucial game between third-placed Valencia and Sevilla, who have lost three of their last four matches to slip out of the title race.
Mallorca can also improve their bid for a top four spot with a win over bottom club Xerez.
They all have considerable ground to make up on Barcelona, who have 52 points from 19 games, and Real, who are on 47. Valencia, who have played a game less, are on 39 points with Mallorca having 34.
