Bourbon buddies they are not.
But there are all the makings of a spirited conversation for President Barack Obama and incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Kentucky, when this Washington odd couple meets at the White House on Wednesday afternoon.
A new Republican proposal to fund the government thought what has been dubbed the "cromnibus," which would pay for nearly all federal programs with an "omnibus" spending bill but only offer a short-term "continuing resolution" or "CR" for immigration related spending is expected to be on the agenda.
A presidential green-light to the "cromnibus," a term that can only exist inside the Beltway, could help ease tensions with GOP lawmakers who are still furious over Obama's executive action on immigration.  White House officials have so far not threatened to veto Boehner's plan.
The President's request for $6 billion in emergency funding to battle Ebola in West Africa and a new authorization for the use of military force in the war against ISIS are likely topics at the meeting as well.
McConnell laid out a nuts and bolts legislative wish-list for December's lame duck session in Congress to reporters Tuesday.
"I think everyone agrees on a bipartisan basis those are the three things we must do here at the end of the session -- fund the government, make sure we don't have any retroactive tax increases and follow the tradition of many years which is to pass a National Defense Authorization Act," McConnell said.  "I'm confident the Senate will do that before we depart for the holidays," he added.
But in a sign of the frostiness of the Kentucky Republican's relationship with the president, McConnell referred to Obama's immigration plan as "lawless" and a "poison pill."
Obama himself brought up the immigration action at a meeting with the Business Roundtable hours before he will sit down with McConnell.
"I'm still hopeful that we can get legislation done," he said, saying that would "supplant" his executive actions.
While Obama and McConnell rarely ever sit down together privately, the two leaders have held such meetings a few more times than what has been previously acknowledged by aides to both men. Same goes for the President and House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio. The reason, top White House officials have said, is that knowledge of their conversations could jeopardize relations between the Republican leaders and their more conservative members.
Yet it is also well-known the two men sometimes fail to connect. The President called but could not reach McConnell on election night last month, just hours after he beat Democrat Alison Lundergan Grimes to win reelection in Kentucky and all but secure his place as the next Senate Majority Leader.
RELATED: Obama reaches out, leaves message for McConnell
The scheduled 2:40 p.m. start time for Wednesday's meeting is a bit early to share that "Kentucky bourbon" with McConnell, as Obama offered at his post midterms news conference last month.
But given that McConnell once vowed to make Obama a one-term president, perhaps the best both men can expect is a healthy pour of Washington reality.
