(CNN Student News) -- December 2, 2013
CNN Student News kicks off our December coverage in Thailand, where protesters are calling for the country's prime minister to step down. We also report on the U.S. government's work to improve some parts of the Obamacare website. Plus, we discuss the goals of World AIDS Day, and we hear about the mutual inspiration between a 10-year-old cancer patient and a women's college basketball team.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What role do you think the media should play following the sudden death of a celebrity? What considerations should they make when reporting on it?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. constitutional monarchy
2. World AIDS Day
3. Paul Walker
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is known about yesterday's train derailment in New York City?
2. What do the acronyms HIV and AIDS stand for? What's the connection between HIV and AIDS? What facts are given in the program about World AIDS Day?
3. What different perspectives are given on the current status of the enrollment website for the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare)?
Discussion Questions:
1. In your view, is protesting an effective method of pushing for governmental change? Why or why not? How might this depend on the political climate of the country in which the protests occur? In what other ways can citizens express their opinions to their government? What might be the pros and cons of each of these methods?
2. What kinds of evidence do you think investigators look for after a public transportation accident, such as the one involving a train in New York City? What influence might these investigations have?
3. What do people in the report say about the "honorary sixth man" on the Warner Pacific College women's basketball team? In your view, how might her position have an impact on herself, her family and the team? What was your reaction to this story?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Thailand
North America
New York City; Portland, Oregon
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
