Televangelist Pat Robertson wishes Facebook had a 'vomit' button. So that he could click on it every time he came across a photograph of a gay couple kissing.
Robertson who has repeatedly made clear his disapproval of homosexuality, made the latest comments Monday in response to a question he fielded from a viewer on his Christian Broadcasting Network show "The 700 Club."
The viewer wanted to know how to address images of same-sex couples on social media sites, such as Facebook.
You've got a couple of same-sex guys kissing, do you like that? Well that makes me want to throw up," he said.
"To me I would punch 'Vomit;' not 'Like,'" he added.
"But they don't give you that option on Facebook."
It's not the first time Robertson, 83, has used vomit to express his sentiments on homosexuality.
Robertson has also said the land would "vomit out" those who disobeyed the commandments of the Old Testament.
Here are nine more controversial and colorful comments the evangelists has made that have gone viral:
On adultery
"Males have a tendency to wander a little bit. And what you want to do is make a home so wonderful he doesn't want to wander."
On a man with an Alzheimer's-stricken wife
"I know it sounds cruel, but if he's going to do something, he should divorce her and start all over again, but to make sure she has custodial care and somebody (is) looking after her."
Asked what about the "Till death do us part" part of the marriage vow, he said Alzheimer's is "a kind of death."
On Walt Disney World's "Gay Days"
"I would warn Orlando that you're right in the way of some serious hurricanes, and I don't think I'd be waving those flags in God's face if I were you ... It'll bring about terrorist bombs; it'll bring earthquakes, tornadoes, and possibly a meteor."
On the role of a man and a woman
"I know this is painful for the ladies to hear, but if you get married, you have accepted the headship of a man, your husband. Christ is the head of the household, and the husband is the head of the wife, and that's the way it is, period."
On feminism
"The feminist agenda is not about equal rights for women. It is about a socialist, anti-family political movement that encourages women to leave their husbands, kill their children, practice witchcraft, destroy capitalism and become lesbians."
On the devastating 2010 Haiti earthquake
"They were under the heel of the French, you know, Napoleon the third and whatever. And they got together and swore a pact to the devil. They said, 'We will serve you if you will get us free from the prince.' True story.
And so the devil said, 'OK, it's a deal.' And they kicked the French out. The Haitians revolted and got themselves free. But ever since they have been cursed by one thing after another."
On homosexuality
"Many of those people involved in Adolf Hitler were Satanists. Many were homosexuals. The two things seem to go together."
On assassinating Hugo Chavez
"You know, I don't know about this doctrine of assassination, but if he thinks we're trying to assassinate him, I think that we really ought to go ahead and do it."
On the tornadoes that ravaged the Midwest in 2012
"If enough people were praying, (God) would've intervened. You could pray. Jesus stilled the storm. You can still storms."
