Musician Pete Wentz of Fall Out Boy performed at a concert sponsored by Rock the Vote on the first night of the Democratic National Convention. Before Monday night's show in Denver, Colorado, Wentz answered five questions for CNN.com.
Pete Wentz says it's great to see his young fans get energized about the election when they can't even vote.
CNN.com: What have you been doing in Denver? Have you been having any fun?
Wentz: I have had a little bit of fun, but I only came in yesterday so we've only been around a little bit. I think we'll go out a little bit tonight, but then I think we go back to California. Then we're going to watch most of the speeches and whatnot on TV and the computer.
CNN.com: So what do the Democrats need to do to win the White House, do you think?
Wentz: I actually learned this from the person I got tennis lessons from that Democrats or the Republicans need not only to win the White House but you need to maintain the majority in the government in general in order to get things moving.
CNN.com: As you're meeting your fans, does it seem like people are pretty energized about this election?
Wentz: Yeah ... people are pretty excited about it. ... I think [even] people that aren't even old enough to vote, which is what's pretty exciting. A lot of the times we're like, "Well, some of the fans are really young, they can't even vote," but it's like they're gonna be voting in the next election. I'm personally excited when I see people who are so excited about it. iReport.com: Are you at the DNC? Share sights and sounds
CNN.com: Illinois -- home base for the band. What's the vibe that you're getting there in Illinois?
Wentz: Well, Illinois's definitely pulling for Obama. I think that that is because of Chicago as a populace and also by virtue of Obama being from Illinois. And you know, hometown crowd's the best, you know what I'm saying?
CNN.com: And who are you voting for? And Ashlee [Simpson]?
Wentz: Well, probably the last thing my wife would do -- ever -- is tell me who she's voting for, to be honest with you. But my guess would be that she votes pretty similarly to me.
