Defending champions Chelsea marched five points clear at the top of the English Premier League on Saturday with a 2-0 victory that left Wolverhampton in the relegation zone.
Carlo Ancelotti's team bounced back from last weekend's goalless draw at Aston Villa to put the onus on title rivals Manchester City, Arsenal and Manchester United.
Arsenal travel to City on Sunday, while United face a potentially tricky clash with Stoke in the club's first match since England striker Wayne Rooney -- who is sidelined with injury -- made a surprise turnaround and decided to sign a new five-year contract after threatening to leave.
Chelsea faced a Wolves team who had not won since the opening day of the season, but made hard work of the victory after taking the lead in the 23rd minute.
Nicolas Anelka helped Yuri Zhirkov --  his fellow goalscorer in the midweek Champions League win over Spartak Moscow -- set up France winger Florent Malouda for the opener.
The visitors belied their lowly league position and squandered several chances to equalize, coming closest when halftime substitute Stephen Hunt's header was cleared off the line by Michael Essien.
Hunt was booed when he came on the pitch by the home fans, who have still not forgiven him for the collision that left Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech with a fractured skull four years ago.
Salomon Kalou replaced Malouda with 18 minutes to play, and the Ivory Coast forward made it 2-0 on 81 when he finished off a series of passes involving him, Essien and Didier Drogba, who returned from injury to lead the attack.
Tottenham Hotspur moved up to third place with a 1-1 home draw against Everton in Saturday's early kick-off, after Rafael van der Vaart's first-half strike equaled Leighton Baines' goal for the visitors.
Defender Baines put David Moyes' men ahead at White Hart Lane in the 17th minute with a deftly-struck left-foot free-kick that sailed into the top right-hand corner from the edge of the area, but the advantage proved to be short-lived.
Spurs, who made three changes to the side who lost 4-3 to Inter Milan in the Champions League in midweek, equalized three minutes later.
Capitalizing on a defensive mix-up between Everton goalkeeper Tim Howard and Phil Neville from a deep cross, Van der Vaart celebrated his return from European suspension to slot home his fourth of the season on 19 minutes when the ball fell at his feet just yards from the goal line.
Everton looked to have greater energy as the game progressed though Yakubu, who had managed well as Everton's only forward, was replaced with France striker Louis Saha after sustaining an injury.
The move prompted Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp to shuffle his pack and introduce the presence of striker Roman Pavlyuchenko in place of speedy winger Aaron Lennon, as both sides gambled for the win.
Promoted West Brom joined Tottenham on 15 points with a 2-1 victory at home to Fulham, moving up to fourth place ahead of Arsenal and Manchester United.
Roberto Di Matteo's team, had to come from behind after Scott Carson could only push Zoltan Gera's ninth-minute effort onto  the post -- and the ball bounced back off the former England goalkeeper and into the net.
But Congo midfielder Youssouf Mulumbu leveled eight minutes later after collecting Chris Brunt's throughball and beating keeper Mark Schwarzer.
Striker Marc-Antoine Fortune made it 2-1 five minutes before halftime with a cool finish after winger Jerome Thomas cut the ball back from the byline.
Fulham boss Mark Hughes brought on former England striker Andy Johnson for his first appearance since January, but his team could not equalize and have now not won away since the opening day in August.
Sunderland moved up to seventh place after beating Aston Villa 1-0 to end a run of five successive draws, as Richard Dunne's first-half own-goal proved the difference between the teams.
The Republic of Ireland defender could only divert French midfielder Steed Malbranque's 25th-minute cross into his own net, and Villa earlier saw winger Stewart Downing hit the post and striker Emile Heskey completely miskicked in front of goal in the second half.
Sunderland have scored just 11 times in nine league matches -- seven from England striker Darren Bent, two from record signing Asamoah Gyan, and two own-goals.
Bolton joined Sunderland on 12 points with a 1-1 draw at Wigan, who moved above Fulham into 14th place.
Wigan took the lead just before the hour mark through Colombia striker Hugo Rodallega, but Sweden forward Johan Elmander leveled in the 66th minute.
Birmingham moved up to 12th place with a 2-0 win over Blackpool, who also have 10 points along with Everton, Stoke and Wigan.
Defender Liam Ridgewell scored Birmingham's first home goal since August 21 in the 36th minute, nodding in from close range after Nikola Zigic headed against the crossbar.
The giant Serbia striker scored his second goal in successive matches 10 minutes after the halftime break when Blackpool could not clear Ridgewell's cross.
Newcastle won 2-1 at bottom club West Ham in the late match to move above Villa on goal difference, with young striker Andy Carroll netting a 68th-minute winner for his fifth league goal this season.
West Ham went ahead in the 12th minute through striker Carlton Cole's first of the campaign, but visiting captain Kevin Nolan leveled 10 minutes later.
