Race relations in the United States have "certainly gotten better," despite widely-varying opinions on the criminal justice system's fairness, incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Monday.
In an interview with CNN's Dana Bash, the Kentucky Republican called pointed to South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott, a Republican, who in November became the first black senator elected in the South since Reconstruction.
"It's undeniable there's been remarkable progress for African-Americans in this country. They've been elected senators and governors and running major corporations," he said. "But obviously we still have a long way to go."
Will the Eric Garner case change things?
Debates about race relations have raged since grand juries in Ferguson, Missouri, and New York City failed to indict police officers accused of unnecessarily killing black citizens. Other top Republicans have said race relations have suffered under President Barack Obama, the country's first black president.
One potential 2016 Republican presidential candidate, neurosurgeon Ben Carson, recently said in an interview with Breitbart TV that, "Things were better before this president was elected. And I think that things have gotten worse because of his unusual emphasis [on race]."
McConnell's comments come a day after a Bloomberg Politics poll found that 53 percent of Americans believe racial tensions have gotten worse under Obama.
McConnell said he didn't want to assess Obama's role.
"People can draw their own conclusions," he said. "I think we've come a long way but we probably have way more progress we need to make."
The criminal justice system should be trusted -- whether its outcomes are popular or not, McConnell said.
"Unfortunately, so much of the criminal justice system seems to be producing different reactions from different people based upon race," McConnell said. "At the end of the day, though, we have to trust the criminal justice system. They bring together people to review evidence, to see whether an indictment is appropriate.
"When that happens some people like it and some don't. It's sort of like being a member of Congress. And, I think we're not happy with where we are, but we just have to keep working on it," he said.
