(InStyle.com) -- Objective: Find a fabulous but not outrageously priced gift for the label-loving fashionista on your holiday list. This seemingly daunting task is no problem, with InStyle.com's seven stylish picks.
Marc Jacobs Geo Ring Set
Slipping into something by one of her favorite designers has never been so easy (or affordable!) than with these geometric stackable plastic rings from Marc Jacobs ($11 for a set of 3, marcjacobs.com for stores).
Chanel Nail Polish Trio
Chanel nail polishes are practically collector's items, with their newest shades often selling out before they hit stores thanks to pre-order wait lists.
Fortunately this set ($66, chanel.com) includes three full-size bottles of iconic Chanel shades Rouge Noir, Gold Lamé and Coromandel, plus a reusable makeup bag.
InStyle.com: 14 perfect stocking stuffers
Diane von Furstenberg Kindle Holder
Make sure her techie accessories look as good as she does with a canvas Diane von Furstenberg Kindle holder ($85, dvf.com). Not only does it feature a cute poppy print on the outside, the inside is lined with hot pink and features convenient credit card holders.
Valentino Rosette Handbag
Valentino's iconic rose handbags are hard to resist, and this adorable mini version ($325, saksfifthavenue.com) is at the top of our own list. Remove the chain link strap to turn it into a party-ready clutch.
InStyle.com: Gifts guys will love
Louis Vuitton Key Chain
While losing keys will never be fun, finding them can be more chic!
Deliver a lot of Louis Vuitton style in a little package with this resin LV monogram keychain ($310, select Louis Vuitton stores).
Tom Ford Black Orchid Trio
Legendary designer Tom Ford's inaugural namesake women's line doesn't hit stores until early next year, so tide her over with this Black Orchid Trio ($140, Bloomingdale's) from the former Gucci creative director's makeup collection.
The boxed set includes his first ever nail polish, along with a matching lipstick and a compact filled with Black Orchid pressed perfume.
InStyle.com: Gifts that give back
'American Dior'
Add to her fashion library with this gorgeous coffee table book ($70, horchow.com) that chronicles Christian Dior's dressing of America's most glamorous women, like Marilyn Monroe, Grace Kelly and Elizabeth Taylor.
Find even more perfect gift ideas at InStyle.com.
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2010 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
