Performances of the troubled Broadway musical "Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark" are scheduled to resume Thursday evening after a performer was injured during a show, a spokesman said.
The show's producers acted on the guidance of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the New York State Department of Labor, according to spokesman Rick Miramontez.
During Monday's performance, 31-year-old Christopher Tierney fell at least 20 feet and was hospitalized.
Earlier, Broadway actor Adam Pascal called for the prosecution of the show's director, Julie Taymor, because of a series of recent mishaps, including Tierney's injury.
"They should put Julie Taymor in jail for assault!" Pascal posted on the social networking site Facebook.
He called for lawsuits against Taymor and others invested in the production, such as musical stars Bono and David Howell Evans.
Pascal later recanted the comments, saying, "I think some of you missed the intended humor in my post, although my anger is real, I don't think anyone should sue Bono and the Edge you dummy! Or put Julie Taymor in jail you double dummy. I was making a point."
Pascal's representative, Rich Aronstein from RJ productions, confirmed the posts were authentic.
The show, with music and lyrics by U2's Bono and Howell (aka The Edge), is the most expensive in Broadway history, but production has been beset by cast injuries and technical problems.
Taymor said the accident was "obviously heartbreaking for our entire team and, of course, to me personally."
"I am so thankful that Chris is going to be all right and is in great spirits," Taymor said in a statement Tuesday. "Nothing is more important than the safety of our Spider-Man family and we'll continue to do everything in our power to protect the cast and crew."
Tierney was initially listed in serious condition at Bellevue Hospital.
The fall that injured him was caused by human error, the Actors Equity Association, a performers' union, said Wednesday.
On Tuesday, the "Spider-Man" company met with officials from the union, as well as representatives of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the New York State Department of Labor.
The union did not give details on the error, but the group said it worked with the other agencies to develop a safety plan to address the issue.
Initially, only the Wednesday matinee performance was postponed after the incident, and performances were to resume Wednesday evening.
