A handwritten note, handcuff box, camping equipment and a DNA swab kit were among the items found by San Diego deputies in the burned home and garage of James DiMaggio.
DiMaggio was shot and killed by FBI agents in Idaho after allegedly kidnapping Hannah Anderson,16, this month.
The list of items is included in a search warrant and affidavits CNN affiliate KFMB obtained.
It detailed what authorities found in the aftermath of the August 4 fire at DiMaggio's home, about 45 miles east of San Diego in the community of Boulevard, and how investigators believe the fire was started.
Other items found on the nine-page list of things seized from the home and the adjacent garage include incendiary devices, a gas can, rolls of duct tape, used condoms, ammunition, an arson wire and letters from Hannah.
Contents of the letters and the handwritten note were not revealed in the affidavit.
When specifically asked about the note by KFMB, the sheriff's department deferred.
"Many portions of this investigation cannot be discussed," said spokesperson Jan Caldwell. "Sorry this is one if them."
Also recovered was a map of Yosemite -- a possible clue as to where DiMaggio intended to take Hannah.
The list also contained seemingly benign items such as balloons, a fly swatter and a Popsicle box.
The court documents did not specifically tie any of the items to DiMaggio's alleged crimes.
DiMaggio flees with Hannah
Hannah went missing after cheerleading practice in San Diego County on August 3.
The next day, the bodies of her mother, Christina Anderson, 42, and brother, Ethan, 8, were found at the DiMaggio property.
Affidavits: Teen's mother, brother 'tortured and killed'
That horror spurred a manhunt, which zeroed in on central Idaho after two critical clues: the discovery of DiMaggio's blue Nissan Versa outside the city of Cascade, and a sighting of the pair by horseback riders.
One of the horsemen recalled noticing multiple "red flags" during their brief interaction with the pair, including their brand-new camping equipment and the pajama-like bottoms Hannah was wearing.
Father Brett Anderson said Thursday that he'd been able to offer "our thanks and our love" to the horseback riders in a phone conversation.
"It was a chance encounter, but it did save my daughter's life," he said Thursday.
The ordeal ended August 10 after authorities spotted DiMaggio and his teenage captive's campsite near Morehead Lake.
Hostage rescue teams had to hike more than two hours to get to the scene, local sheriffs' departments said. Eventually, they got close enough, and an FBI tactical agent fatally shot DiMaggio, before whisking Hannah away.
California teen rescued, her alleged abductor killed
Family fundraiser
Days after being rescued in the Idaho wilderness Hannah attended a fundraiser on Thursday for her and her family near their Southern California home.
The teenager could be seen entering the Boll Weevil restaurant in Lakeside, a community of about 20,000 people located 20 miles northeast of San Diego.
Hannah didn't speak publicly before entering the building, though her father later did talk to reporters. The media were invited to the fundraiser at the family-friendly restaurant, but were not allowed inside.
"This is a small community that we are a part of, and the community came together putting on this great fundraiser for Hannah and hopefully for her future and healing," Brett Anderson said, before he thanked local residents, family and friends, the media and law enforcement. "This is how Lakeside rolls."
Speaking Thursday about her condition, Brett Anderson said "she's just happy to be here."
"Hannah sends her love," her father said. "She's doing good day by day, and we'll keep moving forward from here."
One of her friends, Alyssa Haugum, said from outside Thursday's fundraiser that she was looking forward to seeing Hannah and giving her a hug. They had communicated via Facebook, she said.
Haugum described Hannah, whom she knows from school and dance, as strong, funny and "usually really bubbly."
"It takes a lot to make her upset," she said of her friend.
The entire ordeal was surreal and scary, as it hit so close to home, Haugum said.
"It just felt like it was untrue: One day somebody could be with you, and the next day they are missing and you don't know where they're at," Haugum said.
Then, alluding to her friend Hannah, she added, "But I knew she was strong. I knew she would come back."
Hannah Anderson discusses kidnapping on social media
CNN's Casey Wian reported from Lakeside, and CNN's Ed Payne and Greg Botelho wrote this story from Atlanta. CNN's Amanda Watts contributed to this report.
