Maria Sharapova crashed out of the China Open on Tuesday, with the former world No. 1 suffering her second consecutive early exit.
The 12th seed, beaten in her opening game in Japan last week, lost to fellow Russian Elena Vesnina in the second round to follow defending champion Svetlana Kuznetsova and last year's runner-up Agnieszka Radwanska in departing the $4.5 million Beijing event.
Vesnina -- who lost their only other meeting at the 2008 Australian Open, which Sharapova won for her third grand slam title -- triumphed 7-6 (7-3) 6-2 to set up a clash with Switzerland's Timea Bacsinszky.
"I'm definitely not as good as I wanted to be," Sharapova told the WTA Tour website. "After the U.S. Open I wasn't able to train as much as I would've wanted to, and I feel like the last couple of weeks I've just been trying to play catch-up.
"My rhythm hasn't been where it should be. Obviously it's disappointing, but I've lost and won many matches in my career. I'll just have to regroup and move forward."
The 21-year-old Bacsinszky progressed when eighth seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus withdrew with a leg injury, trailing 3-2 in the second set after winning the opener 6-4.
Second seed Vera Zvonareva will next face fellow Russian Maria Kirilenko in the third round following her 6-4 6-1 win over Germany's Andrea Petkovic, while French Open champion Francesca Schiavone also went through.
The Italian fifth seed beat Slovenia's Polona Hercog 6-3 6-3 to set up a match with unseeded Russian Vera Dushevina.
Dushevina's compatriot Elena Dementieva will play former world No. 1 Ana Ivanovic in the last 16, with the seventh seed defeating Japanese veteran Kimiko Date Krumm 6-3 1-6 6-3 despite serving 10 double-faults.
Ivanovic battled back from 4-1 down in the second set to beat Olga Govortsova of Belarus 6-0 7-5.
"I realized I was sort of pulling back a little bit and wasn't as dominant as I was in the first set," the Serbian said. "I had to stay calm and not panic, and not go for winners too soon. I'm really happy I managed to do that."
Ninth seed Li Na kept the home crowd happy with a 6-1 6-4 win over Russia's Alisa Kleybanova, while Israeli 15th seed Shahar Peer notched a 6-4 6-2 win over Switzerland's Patty Schnyder.
Peer will next play Bojana Jovanovski, who upset fellow Serbian and third seed Jelena Jankovic on Monday.
Top seed Caroline Wozniacki had a first-round bye and will open her campaign against Italy's Sara Errani on Wednesday.
The 20-year-old Dane will overtake American Serena Williams at the top of the world rankings if she reaches the quarterfinals.
