President-elect Barack Obama formally announced Sunday that retired Army Gen. Eric Shinseki, a decorated veteran and popular figure among critics of the Bush administration, is his pick to be secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Retired Gen. Eric Shinseki Sunday promised to work for veterans "each and every day."
"There is no one more distinguished, more determined, or more qualified to build this VA than the leader I am announcing as our next secretary of Veterans Affairs -- Gen. Eric Shinseki," Obama said at a press conference.
"No one will ever doubt that this former Army chief of staff has the courage to stand up for our troops and our veterans. No one will ever question whether he will fight hard enough to make sure they have the support they need," Obama added.
Obama said the nation must focus on helping troops who have served their country especially during bad economic times.
"We don't just need to better serve veterans of today's wars. We also need to build a 21st century VA that will better serve all who have answered our nation's call," Obama said.  Watch Obama talk about Shinseki »
Obama said Shinseki, who served two combat tours in Vietnam and lost part of his foot, "understands the changing needs of our troops and their families. And he will be a VA secretary who finally modernizes our VA to meet the challenges of our time."
Shinseki, who spoke after Obama, made a vow to his fellow veterans. If confirmed, he said, he will "work each and every day" to ensure the nation is serving them "as well as you have served us."
The official announcement took place in Chicago, Illinois, on Sunday, the anniversary of Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941.
In an interview broadcast Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press," Obama called Shinseki "exactly the right person" for the post.
Host Tom Brokaw said Shinseki lost his job in the Bush administration "because he said that we would need more troops in Iraq than the secretary of defense, Don Rumsfeld, thought that we would need at that time."
"He was right," Obama replied.
Veterans groups appeared to support the selection.
"I am excited. I don't know him personally but this is a huge move," said Paul Rieckhoff, executive director of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America.
For years, Shinseki, a highly decorated Vietnam veteran, has been cited as an example by Pentagon critics who say the former Army chief's sage advice was ignored in 2003, resulting in too few U.S. troops being sent to Iraq after the invasion.
Shinseki testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee in February 2003 that "something on the order of several hundred thousand soldiers would be required" to pacify the country. The comment infuriated some Bush administration officials, and he retired just a few months later.
Shinseki has never spoken publicly about his testimony, which has often been cited by critics as evidence that Rumsfeld ignored the advice of one of his key generals.
But as Army chief of staff, Shinseki was not in the chain of command, and played no direct role in drawing up the war plans.
Pentagon sources say that, in fact, Shinseki never advocated higher troop levels for Iraq, in part because it was not his job to do so. And sources say that just before the invasion, when asked by then-Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Richard Myers if he agreed with the war plans, Shinseki voiced no objections.
Still, Rieckhoff said, "Shinseki is a guy who had a career putting patriotism above politics. He is a wounded veteran so he understands the plight of veterans." iReport.com: What do you think of Obama's cabinet picks so far?
He said Shinseki would have to make key connections with the veterans community, adding, "This is a big name and it shows that he [Obama] is not going to treat the Veterans Affairs secretary as a low priority."
John Rowan, president of Vietnam Veterans of America, called the reported pick an "interesting choice."
"I am satisfied with it," Rowan told CNN on Saturday, adding that the choice seems to be in the Obama transition team's pattern of "bringing in strong personalities into all the positions who aren't going to 'yes' him to death."
"When Shinseki had his disagreements with the administration, he wasn't afraid to speak up," Rowan said.
Veterans for Common Sense also weighed in, issuing a statement "strongly" supporting Shinseki.
"In February 2003, Gen. Shinseki honestly and correctly assessed our nation's military needs before the invasion of Iraq in March 2003," the statement said. "This same level of candor and honesty will serve President-elect Obama well so he can quickly and accurately identify VA's many challenges and then implement responsible solutions that take into consideration our veterans' needs and concerns."
CNN's Candy Crowley and Adam Levine contributed to this report.
