Sean Edwards, one of Britain's most promising racing drivers, has been killed in a crash at the Queensland Raceway in Australia.
Edwards, 26, was the son of former Formula One driver Guy Edwards and played the role of his father in the recently-released movie Rush.
Edwards was leading the drivers' championship in the 2013 Porsche Mobil 1 Supercup season and was taking part in a private training session for young drivers.
The accident occurred when the Porsche 966 car in which he was traveling in as a passenger smashed into a tire barrier.
Guy Edwards was one of three drivers who famously pulled Niki Lauda out of his car before it burst into flames following a crash at the Nurburgring during the 1976 German Grand Prix.
His son had followed him into racing and was highly rated.
Condolences
"Our thoughts are with his family and we want to express our deepest condolences to his relatives," said Hartmut Kristen, Head of Motorsport at Porsche.
Inspector Dave Preston, from Queensland Police, said emergency services had struggled to get Edwards out of the damaged vehicles.
"The fire and rescue had to do extensive work in relation to extracting and opening the vehicle up sufficiently to remove him, he was trapped for some time," he told reporters.
"When I last went down there and he was being removed he [the driver] was awake and aware of what was going on around him."
Edwards began his career in Formula Ford 10 years ago before going on to compete in the Formula Renault UK and British GT.
He won the FIA GT3 Championship in 2006 before making the move to the Porsche Supercup competition in 2008.
Shocking
David Coulthard, the former Formula One driver, took to Twitter to extend his condolences.
He wrote: "Shocking news about Sean Edwards passing, top man and super talented racer, condolences to his nearest and dearest."
The Motor Sports Association (MSA) also offered its best wishes to the family, saying it was "shocked and saddened" by the news.
'Sean was a hugely promising young racer who came through the junior formulas in Britain, before making a career in international sports car racing," read the statement.
"He is leading the 2013 Porsche Supercup championship and had won both the Nurburgring and Dubai 24 Hours this year.
"The MSA extends its deepest sympathies to Sean's family, friends and fans at this difficult time."
