Australian rapper Iggy Azalea is poised to dominate this year's American Music Awards.
The "Fancy" artist leads the 2014 round of nominations with a total of six, including nods for artist of the year; best new artist; favorite female artist in the pop/rock and rap categories; and favorite rap album for her latest release, "The New Classic."
In the headlining artist of the year category, Azalea has no shortage of competition: Beyonce; Luke Bryan; Eminem; Imagine Dragons; John Legend; Lorde; One Direction; Katy Perry; and Pharrell Williams are all up for the award.
The number of contestants in the category has been raised from five to 10 this year, and fans will have the opportunity to tighten the playing field. They can place their votes through November 13 to narrow the category down to a top five list of contenders. The winner of artist of the year will be the performer with the largest number of votes through the entire voting period.
Other nominees include:
New artist of the year
5 Seconds of Summer
Iggy Azalea
Bastille
Sam Smith
Meghan Trainor
Single of the year
"Fancy," Iggy Azalea feat. Charli XCX
"All of Me," John Legend
"Rude," MAGIC!
"Dark Horse," Katy Perry feat. Juicy J
"Happy," Pharrell Williams
Favorite male artist -- pop/rock
John Legend
Sam Smith
Pharrell Williams
Favorite female artist -- pop/rock
Iggy Azalea
Lorde
Katy Perry
Favorite band, duo or group -- pop/rock
Imagine Dragons
One Direction
OneRepublic
Favorite album -- pop/rock
"Pure Heroine," Lorde
"Midnight Memories," One Direction
"Prism," Katy Perry
Trailing Iggy Azalea with five nominations each are John Legend, Katy Perry and Pharrell Williams. Lorde has a total of four nods, and Beyonce; Eminem; One Direction; Imagine Dragons; and One Republic are each nominated for three American Music Awards.
Nominees are chosen based on factors including radio airplay, number of albums and digital singles sold, and social media activity as tracked by Billboard magazine.
The fans' choice reigns supreme with this awards show, and votes can now be placed online and on Twitter.
The American Music Awards will air live from Los Angeles on November 23 at 8 p.m. ET/PT. To see the full list of nominees, visit TheAMAs.com.
