Fernando Alonso insists he is not thinking about the prospect of his Red Bull rivals Mark Webber and Sebastian Vettel combining to deprive him of a third Formula One world title this weekend.
The season comes to a climax at Sunday's Abu Dhabi Grand Prix with four drivers battling to take home motorsport's biggest prize.
Ferrari's Alonso holds an eight-point lead over second-placed Webber, with Vettel in third 15 points off the top. McLaren driver Lewis Hamilton has an outside chance of claiming his second crown, being 24 points behind Alonso with only 25 on offer to the winner.
With Red Bull having already secured the constructors' championship, this has led to speculation that the 23-year-old Vettel will be asked to allow his Australian teammate to overtake him if the pair are leading the field at the Yas Marina circuit.
Latest F1 championship standings
But two-time champion Alonso -- whose team was fined $100,000 in September for telling Felipe Massa to allow the Spaniard to win July's German Grand Prix -- says he is focusing on his own race, needing a first or second-place finish to ensure another title.
"I don't think I would lose even one second of my energy this weekend thinking of what is going to happen on Sunday afternoon," the 29-year-old told F1's official website when asked whether he would understand if Vettel assisted Webber.
"Our only picture of the race at the moment is winning it or finishing second. That's the target and I think that's what we're going to achieve this weekend.
"I think there's not anything we can do other than try to finish second or first in the race, that is mathematically our position to win the championship, so it's our goal, from Friday to Sunday, our preparation will be to reach that target."
Vettel would not be drawn on whether he is planning to support his colleague during Sunday's race, but he did admit he was keen to avoid a repeat of this year's Turkish Grand Prix where he and Webber crashed while battling for position.
"If the situation occurs then I think we know that we're driving for the team," the German said.
"We have had some occasions this year where we got close and it didn't look too good, so I think the main target is not to repeat that, and the rest we will see.
"There are lots of things happening, and more important things happening before we enter this possible stage, whatever the scenario."
Meanwhile, Webber claimed he would take a lot of positive memories from the 2010 season, even if he does miss out on the world championship.
"I know that I've been very fortunate even to have a chance to get to this point," the 34-year-old said.
"It's been a very long season for all of us, and as the season's gone on we've achieved so many amazing things, and obviously, personally, for me, to have some very special weekends."
Hamilton must come home first and hope Alonso is outside the top-10 to stand any chance of repeating his 2008 success.
"I have nothing to lose," the 25-year-old British driver said. "The guys in front of me have everything to lose, so for me I am going to be flat-out as always.
"They have got generally faster cars than me but that doesn't mean that we cannot fight for a win. Obviously I have to win this race. That's what we plan to do."
