(CNN)  -- Red Bull's Sebastian Vettel led from start to finish to win the Malaysian Grand Prix at Sepang Sunday.
It was the second straight victory for the reigning Formula One world champion after he claimed the season-opener in Australia a fortnight ago.
Jenson Button finished second in his McLaren with Nick Heidfeld rewarded for his brilliant drive in the Renault with the final podium place.
Vettel's teammate Mark Webber of Australia made up ground after a poor start to finish fourth.
Veteran Heidfeld moved ahead of Button's teammate Lewis Hamilton into second position on the first corner and was always among the front runners through the pits stops.
It was the start of a disappointing afternoon for 2008 champion Hamilton, who crossed the line seventh behind the Ferrari pair of Felipe Massa and Fernando Alonso in fifth and sixth.
But he was later penalized 20 seconds by race stewards following a collision with Alonso as they battled for third spot on lap 46.
It meant he was relegated to eighth spot behind Japan's Kamui Kobayashi in his Sauber. Alonso, who was also penalized, stayed sixth.
Can Ferrari find some trump cards?
But this was another dominant display by Germany's Vettel, who has now won fourth successive F1 races, claiming the final two of the 2010 season to wrap up the title.
He qualified in pole position and quickly opened up an advantage which he comfortably maintained without real challenge.
"It was a great day," he told the official post-race press conference.
"The start was crucial. I had a good one, and then I was surprised going into turn one when I saw the Renault alongside me.
"I think it was a good thing because it meant I could pull away.
"We now have to take the momentum into the next race. It's two out of two, which is perfect, but we have to keep our feet on the ground."
Vettel leads 2009 champion Button by 24 points in the drivers' standings with Hamilton and Webber a further four points adrift.
Completing the minor points scoring, seven-time champion Michael Schumacher was ninth for Mercedes.
Tenth-placed Paul Di Resta scored another point for Force India in only the second F1 start for the young Briton.
