Liverpool climbed back to the top of the Premier League Monday -- but it was made to sweat during a pulsating 2-2 draw with Swansea City.
Liverpool, who had boasted a 100% record going into the contest after winning all three of its league games, sits one point clear of Arsenal and Tottenham following the draw in south Wales.
Jonjo Shelvey, the man who left Liverpool for Swansea in July following a $5 million move, was in the thick of the action from the very start.
Gift
It took Shelvey just two minutes to fire Swansea ahead from close range before his mistake gifted Daniel Sturridge an equalizer soon after.
Another poor pass from Shelvey allowed Liverpool's on-loan winger Victor Moses to fire the Merseysiders in front nine minutes before the break.
But the 21-year-old made amends in the second half, linking up with Michu, who fired home past Simon Mignolet for his first league goal of the season.
Sorry
Swansea might have even won it late on but Liverpool held out for a point, although Shelvey felt his side should have had more.
"I just want to say sorry to the Swansea fans for the two bad mistakes that gifted Liverpool a draw," Shelvey told Sky Sports.
"You just want to go into a hole where nobody can see you when you give the ball away for the other team to score, but it has happened to great players over time.
"I showed a bit of character to keep getting on the ball. I still feel I have given Liverpool a draw but it was a great game to play in."
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers, who left Swansea to take up the reins at Anfield in June 2012, revealed his relief after a hard fought encounter.
"I thought for the first 65 minutes we were very, very good with and without the ball. We had to show character after going behind so early,"he told Sky Sports.
"This will be a really big point for us."
Totti
In Italy, Francesco Totti scored his first goal of the season as Roma claimed a third consecutive victory to maintain its perfect start to the season.
Totti, playing in his 22nd season with the club, helped Roma come from a goal down to defeat Parma 3-1 and join Napoli at the top of the table on nine points.
Parma had taken the lead six minute before the break when Jonathan Biabany headed home from close range.
But the visiting side hit back two minutes after the restart through Alessandro Florenzi before new signing Kevin Strootman set up Totti to score.
And Dutch international Strootman sealed the points from the penalty spot five minutes from time after summer signing Gervinho was sent sprawling.
