Bangladesh cricket chiefs have postponed Pakistan's seven-match tour of the country scheduled to start next week, following government advice.
Bangladeshi Rifles soldiers report back to base following the mutiny that left more than 70 dead.
The decision, announced on the Bangladesh Cricket Board's (BCB) Web site, comes two days after a terrorist attack on the Sri Lankan Test team in Pakistan city Lahore killed eight people and left as many injured.
BCB's succinct statement on Thursday read: "The Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) has postponed Pakistan's Tour of Bangladesh 2009 as advised by the Government authorities."
Pakistan were scheduled to play two Twenty20 internationals and five one-day internationals in Bangladesh, starting with a Twenty20 match in Dhaka on March 10.
Officials of the Pakistan Cricket Board announced a 16-man squad for the tournament on Wednesday, but had also asked for government permission for the team to travel to Bangladesh.
Bangladesh are also facing political turmoil following the mutiny of border security forces group Bangladesh Rifles in the capital that left more than 70 dead.
Officials of the BCB had joined the worlwide cricket community in strongly condemning the attack on Sri Lanka's squad.
They said: "The BCB is deeply concerned at this unprecedented attack on cricket which is a symbol of hope and aspiration for millions in the Sub-continent and around the world.
"We are saddened by the unfortunate events and express solidarity with the players, match officials and victims of the attack.
"The BCB has been in touch with Sri Lanka Cricket, Pakistan Cricket Board and the International Cricket Council and has voiced its alarm at the incident."
Pakistan board chairman Ijaz Butt has urged International Cricket Council hierarchy to wait at least 12 months before considering whether or not to move 2011 World Cup games away from his country.
"It would be too unjust to doubt Pakistan's ability to host the 2011 World Cup in the wake of terrorists attack on the Sri Lankan team," PA Sport quoted Butt as saying. "I have taken up the matter with the ICC and would also request the international cricket community not to make hasty decisions and wait for a year at least to judge Pakistan's credentials as a host of international matches.
"What happened on Tuesday came as shock to the PCB and the whole nation. We would do all we can to save the future by making the international cricketing community realise Pakistan's eagerness to host international cricketing events."
Pakistan are scheduled to co-host the World Cup along with India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.
