Eight people were arrested outside the Ferguson, Missouri, Police Department on Sunday night when demonstrations grew violent yet again, police say.
Each was charged with failure to disperse and resisting arrest, Lt. Ron Miesner of Missouri Highway Patrol said.
Only one of those arrested was from Ferguson; the others were from elsewhere in the St. Louis metropolitan area. Three were from St. Louis, one was from Richmond Heights, one was from Florissant, one was from Bridgeton and one was homeless, he said.
Protests erupted last month following Ferguson Officer Darren Wilson's fatal shooting of unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown. They quickly devolved into nights of looting, vandalism and violence before the tenor of the protests eventually calmed.
Last week, the burning of a memorial near the site where Brown was killed reignited the demonstrations.
Sunday night's protests unfolded in front of the police station, about 2 miles from the five-lane drag that typically plays host to the demonstrations.
While previous protests at the police station have been largely peaceful, some demonstrators among a crowd of about 150 people began throwing rocks and bottles at officers around 10 p.m., according to CNN affiliate KTVI.
No injuries were reported. The eight people arrested were taken to a nearby jail, booked and released, KTVI reported.
Details emerge in officer's shooting
Details also emerged about the circumstances surrounding the shooting of a Ferguson police officer at a community center on Saturday.
The suspect was pointing a gun at the officer's chest when the officer pushed it away, a law enforcement official said.
That's when the gun went off, the official said, striking the officer in his left arm.
With his right arm, the officer pulled out another weapon that he used to shoot at the suspect, the official said.
The officer's wound was not life-threatening, and he was released from a local hospital after being treated.
Authorities have said there's no reason to believe the shooting was connected with demonstrations over the August police shooting of Brown.
But the shooting stoked emotions among protesters who were on the street demonstrating over Brown's death.
The officer had been working for the Ferguson Police Department for several years, the official said.
Authorities haven't released a description of the suspect, the official said, because it was dark at the community center and the event unfolded quickly.
The officer was wearing a body camera at the time of the shooting, according to the Saint Louis County sheriff's office, but it was "not activated," officials said.
That's because the officer wasn't "in contact with the public" when the shooting occurred, the law enforcement official said.
