The world's most valuable club Manchester United has penned a new multi-million dollar deal with U.S. insurance giant Aon as part of an aggressive marketing strategy aimed at driving revenue through sponsorship.
One of 36 companies that now sponsor Manchester United, Aon will sign an eight-year contract to brand the club's training kit and attach its name to United's Carrington training ground.
The deal, which runs until 2021, is reportedly worth £15 million [$23 million] a season and will see the training ground renamed Aon Training Complex.
It is the first time the Premier League giants have sold the branding rights to their coveted training ground on the outskirts of Manchester and represents another step in the club's strategy to drive up revenues.
For the 2011/2012 season, United increased revenues by £14.2 million to £117.6 million, the highest of any club in the Premier League, and have sponsorship deals with companies from Indonesian tyremakers to China Construction Bank.
United players and coaches, including manager Alex Ferguson, will also wear Aon branded training kits at all friendly and competitive  domestic fixtures as well as during training sessions. Aon will have access to the club's training grounds to entertain clients and host corporate events.
Announcing the partnership, Manchester United Commercial Director Richard Arnold said in a statement: "I am delighted that this cements our relationship with Aon for a further eight years."
Additionally, the London-based insurer will act as a presenting partner for Manchester United, nicknamed the 'Red Devils,' on its pre-season tour of Asia this summer. Aon said 'Tour 2013' will focus on the Club's 325 million followers in Asia with matches planned in Bangkok, Sydney, Yokohama, Osaka and Hong Kong.
Phil Clement, Aon's Global Chief Marketing Officer said: "This announcement is the next step in the evolution of our partnership with Manchester United."
He added: "It is a privilege for Aon to be associated with the world-famous Manchester United training facility."
In October, Manchester United cashed in on a four-year deal with training kit partner DHL anticipating that they could make more money from another sponsor.
Aon is currently the club's main kit sponsor but is set to be replaced by Chevrolet for the start of the 2014-2015 season after the club signed a seven-year deal with the U.S. carmaker in July.
Manchester United, owned by the American Glazer family, look set to win a record 20th league title this season, holding an unassailable 15-point lead over their fierce rivals Manchester City.
The league leaders are set to host reigning champions Manchester City in a local derby at Old Trafford on Monday.
