MIDDLESBROUGH, England -- Middlesbrough have confirmed that midfielders Fabio Rochemback and Gaizka Mendieta and striker Dong Gook Lee have all been released.
Middlesbrough have decided against taking up the option of re-signing Brazilian midfielder Fabio Rochemback.
The Premier League club had an option to extend Brazilian Rochemback's deal by another two years, but manager Gareth Southgate has decided to let him go.
"We both feel that the time is right for Fabio to have a fresh challenge," Southgate said. "He is a talented footballer and I think he's just had his best season for us, while it was fitting that he should bow out against Manchester City on Sunday with probably his best performance in a Middlesbrough shirt."
The 26-year-old joined Boro from Barcelona in 2005 and played 91 games for the Teesside club. He signed off in style by scoring a thumping long-range free-kick in Sunday's 8-1 victory over City.
Rochemback, who netted seven times for Boro, played a major role in helping the club reach the 2006 UEFA Cup final, a year after appearing in the final during a loan spell with Sporting Lisbon -- where he is expected to move back to this summer.
Mendieta, 34, was one of football's costliest players when he joined Lazio from Valencia for 48 million euros in 2001, but he disappointed and joined Barcelona and then Boro on loan.
The former Spain midfielder joined permanently on a free transfer in 2004, but has not played for the first team since December 26, 2006.
"It was a difficult situation for a player of Gaizka's caliber to find himself out of the first team reckoning," added Southgate.
"I made it clear to him that he did not figure in my plans but he decided to stay and try to get back into the first team.
"That didn't work out but his attitude to training was always excellent and he was a good influence on some of our young reserve team players."
South Korean international Lee joined Boro on a free transfer from Pohang Steelers in January 2007. He scored only twice in 11 starts and 18 appearances as a substitute and has not appeared for the first team since early February.
Southgate is still hopeful of persuading goalkeeper Mark Schwarzer to sign a new contract at the Riverside.
The 35-year-old Australian joined Boro from Bradford City in a $3 million deal in February 1997 and has played nearly 450 games for the club.
His deal runs out this summer and he has so far refused to sign an extension, prompting reports of interest from a host of European clubs.
"We are talking to Mark. I'd like him to stay. His experience is important but he has real drive and determination that is still increasing," said Southgate.
"He is the one in our dressing room that can truly say he has played at the highest level -- in World Cups, in Europe, in cup finals and so on.
"We have to negotiate and see where we go, but players have to want to stay here and we have to want to keep them.
"Mark has been here a long time so he has to decide if he needs a fresh challenge, whether what we are trying to do is going to excite him, whether he feels he is going to be appreciated here."
Southgate also confirmed they have offered striker Tom Craddock and right-back Tony McMahon one-year extensions to their current deals, which run out this summer.
Brazilian Rivaldo has changed his mind about retiring and says he will play for Greek club AEK again next season.
The 36-year-old had decided to quit after AEK were denied the title because Olympiakos were awarded three points for a game they lost after the opposing team fielded an ineligible player.
"The truth is that at the end of the championship, I felt great disappointment and a (sense of) injustice, but the love and support I have received from fans and the team have contributed to my final decision ... I have decided to stay at AEK next season," Rivaldo said in a statement on the club's Web site.
Olympiakos lost 1-0 on February 3, but Greek sports authorities gave them the points because Apollon played Roman Wallner who had turned out for two other clubs during the season.
Apollon's appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport was rejected on April 21.
Olympiakos finished the season with 70 points, two ahead of AEK, for their 11th title in 12 years.
Rivaldo, who has played at AC Milan and Barcelona and starred in Brazil's 2002 World Cup victory, spent three seasons at Olympiakos from 2004. He moved to AEK last year after a contract dispute.
Tottenham midfielder Jamie O'Hara has signed a new three-year contract with the club.
The 21-year-old made his debut this season and went on to score two goals in a total 25 appearances. "He has come a long way in a short space of time so I congratulate him and this new contract is recognition of his efforts," said manager Juande Ramos.
"Jamie is an example to all the young players at the club in that reaching the first team can be achieved through hard work and giving the best of yourself."
However, Tottenham goalkeeper Radek Cerny has left the club. The 34-year-old Czech international, who was on loan from Sparta Prague, has joined ambitious Championship club Queens Park Rangers on a two-year contract.
