Who doesn't love a good holiday-themed episode?
Before our favorite TV characters put their turkeys in the oven, decorate their Christmas trees and light their menorahs, they'll dress up in funny costumes and beg for candy ... or mercy.
Kicking off prime time's Halloween celebration is ABC Family's "Pretty Little Liars," which will air its second annual Halloween special on Tuesday at 8 p.m.
We can't wait to see how "A" will terrorize Aria, Hanna, Emily and Spencer aboard Rosewood's Halloween Ghost Train.
On a lighter note, "The Mindy Project" will air its Halloween episode, complete with hilarious costumes and an equally hilarious guest star, Bill Hader, at 9:30 p.m.
Mindy Kaling, the creator and star of the Fox sitcom, said her character will have "five or six costume changes" throughout the episode, and "they're not sexy, hot girl costumes."
Here are some other special Halloween episodes to look for:
Wednesday
"Modern Family": Claire likes her Halloween gory, but she's forced to keep things PG this year. Speaking of parental guidance, Lily probes Mitch and Cam to find out who her real mom is. 9 p.m. on ABC
"Suburgatory": Tessa, Lisa, Malik and Ryan have a "Scooby-Doo"-themed Halloween. 9:30 p.m. on ABC
"The Neighbors": The Weavers get ready for their first Halloween in the suburbs. 8:30 p.m. on ABC
"The Middle": The episode, appropriately titled "Halloween III: The Driving," follows Sue as she injures Axl while learning how to drive. Brick, meanwhile, eats too much candy. 8 pm. on ABC
"Animal Practice": Dorothy judges the animal hospital's Halloween pet costume contest. Unfortunately for fans of the sitcom, its Halloween episode will be one of the last. Only three more episodes will air before "Whitney" takes over the time slot. 8 p.m. on NBC
"Guys with Kids": A woman, played by guest star Marissa Jaret Winokur, who lives in the guys' building prohibits Nick from putting Halloween decorations up in the hallway. 8:30 p.m. on NBC
Thursday
"The Big Bang Theory": Howard and Bernadette dress up as a Smurf and Smurfette for their first Halloween as a married couple. 8 p.m. on CBS
"Up All Night": To get back at her neighbors, Ava and Walter, played by guest star Sean Hayes, create a haunted house unlike any other. 8:30 p.m. on NBC
"The Office": On "Here Comes Treble," Stephen Colbert guest stars as Broccoli Rob, a former member of Andy's a cappella group, according to Entertainment Weekly. Meanwhile, Phyllis and Kevin dress up as a cheerleader and Charlie Brown, respectively. 9 p.m. on NBC
"Parks and Recreation": Ben gets a new job offer, and Andy goes trick-or-treating. 9:30 p.m. on NBC
Sunday
"666 Park Avenue": As if the show weren't scary enough, terror will strike during the Drake's annual Halloween costume gala. 10 p.m. on ABC
October 30
"Ben and Kate": Kate dresses as a baseball player and flirts with a new guy, played by gust star Josh Kelly, at a Halloween party. 8:30 p.m. on Fox
"New Girl": Jess gets a job playing a zombie at a haunted house. 9 p.m. on Fox
"Don't Trust the B---- in Apartment 23": June is looking forward to Halloween, but she's not thrilled with Chloe, who insists on playing tricks on people. Meanwhile, James dresses as an angel for his Halloween party. 9:30 p.m. on ABC
"The New Normal": Despite Bryan's wish for a "Here Comes Honey Boo Boo"-themed Halloween, David dresses up as Tom Brady. 9:30 p.m. on NBC
"Go On": It's an "Alice in Wonderland" Halloween. 10 p.m. on NBC
November 2
"Blue Bloods": Erin and Nicky don "Wizard of Oz" costumes to take Jack and Sean trick-or-treating. 10 p.m. on CBS
