World number one Rafael Nadal will return to Davis Cup action for the first time since 2009 next month, when he leads Spain in its world group first-round clash against Belgium.
It will be the first time the 24-year-old has played in the competition since he was part of the Spanish side that beat the Czech Republic in the final two years ago.
The tie, which takes place in the Belgian town of Charleroi from March 4-6, will also be Nadal's first competitive match since he sustained a wrist injury in his Australian Open quarterfinal loss to compatriot David Ferrer.
The Mallorcan was named in the Spanish squad alongside world number 6 Ferrer, number nine Fernando Verdasco and 41-ranked Feliciano Lopez by team captain Albert Costa at a press conference in Alicante on Friday.
"Having the world number one and best sportsman of 2010 brings a winning spirit and stability to the team," Costa told the official ATP Tour website.
"After the small injury he had in Australia he has done what he needed to do to be able to return to training. His training is progressing, and when he joins our training camp he'll be in perfect condition," the former world number six added.
Nine-time grand slam champion Nadal has an impressive 14-1 win-loss record in Davis Cup singles play and was also part of the team who claimed victory in the event in 2004.
He will travel to Belgium on February 27 to prepare with his teammates ahead of the fourth meeting of the two European countries in the event.
Meanwhile, United States captain Jim Courier has named number eight Andy Roddick as part of a five-man squad who will face Chile in their first round tie.
Like Nadal, 2003 U.S. Open champion's last appearance came in 2009 when the side faced Switzerland in the opening round of the world group.
But Roddick, 28 -- who is the second best all-time player in U.S. Davis Cup history with 31 singles wins -- now looks likely to make his comeback in the event when the Americans travel to Santiago in March.
For his first tie in charge of the U.S., Courier also named John Isner, Sam Querrey and doubles specialists Bob and Mike Bryan. The former world number one can change as many as two players before he must submit his final four-man line up ahead of the draw ceremony on Thursday March 3.
