Uruguay international Edinson Cavani signed a five-year deal with French champions Paris Saint-Germain Tuesday -- for a reported French record fee of euro 64 million ($84 million).
Striker Cavani, nicknamed "El Matador" for his flamboyant style on the pitch, joins PSG from Napoli, where he was Serie A top scorer last season with 29 goals.
He was unveiled at an official press conference in the French capital and said the prospect of joining the Qatari-backed side proved irresistible.
"I had three spectacular years in Naples, but here I am joining a very ambitious project," Cavani told PSG's official Twitter feed.
His signing underlines PSG's determination to match the spending of Ligue 1 rivals Monaco, who have been taken over by Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev.
Since being promoted to the French top flight at the end of last season, Monaco have invested heavily in players, most notably Colombian striker Radamel Falcoa.
That deal, worth a reported euros 60 million ($78 million) was also a record as he signed from La Liga side Atletico Madrid.
But PSG's acquisition of the 26-year-old Cavani will see him pair up with former Napoli teammate Ezequiel Lavezzi, of  Argentina, in a formidable striking partnership.
"The transfer of Edinson Cavani is further proof of the club's ability to attract the best players in the world," PSG president Nasser Al-Khelaifi told their official website.
PSG, who were to prove David Beckham's final club, won the French title last season under the stewardship of Carlo Ancelotti.
He has left to coach Real Madrid, but his replacement Laurent Blanc will not lack resources to mount a sustained challenge for the European Champions League next season.
They have also expressed their determination to hold on to Brazilian star Thiago Silva, who has been strongly linked with a move to Spanish giants Barcelona.
Silva's agent, Paulo Tonieto, told PSG's official  website: "Thiago is a PSG player. He has a contract and he will respect it.
"The rumors are the same as the ones last year but Thiago Silva is a PSG  player and he'll see out his contract with his club."
Cavani, who helped Uruguay to Copa America glory in 2011, has long been a target for a host of Europe's leading clubs and with 38 goals in just 43 matches for Napoli in all competitions last season his price tag rose.
