Teenage boys in fast cars -- it's a rite of passage.
Except it's a bit different for 19-year-old Daniil Kvyat -- he's about to step into the world of Formula One.
The Russian has been confirmed as Toro Rosso's new driver for the 2014 season, replacing Red Bull-bound Daniel Ricciardo.
Kvyat will partner Jean-Eric Vergne after graduating through the Red Bull Junior Driver Program.
'Fantastic'
"This is fantastic news, a dream come true and I want to thank Red Bull and Toro Rosso for giving me this priceless opportunity," Kvyat told the team's website.
"Ever since I began karting, I wanted to get to Formula One and now that wish will become reality next season.
"I had a brief taste of working with the Toro Rosso team when I drove for them at the Silverstone test and I enjoyed the experience very much.
"The fact I am based in Italy and speak Italian will, I am sure, help me to become part of the team very quickly."
Kvyat, who is based in Rome, has been participating in GP3 and the European Formula Three championship while also testing for Toro Rosso at a young driver session at Silverstone last July.
Last year, Kvyatt won the Formula Renault 2.0 title with seven race victories. This season, he has recorded one win following six rounds of the European Formula Three Championship while amassing five poles and five podiums.
He could yet win the GP3 title, with just seven points separating him from the leader.
Talented
"We are pleased to continue our policy of bringing on drivers from the Red Bull Junior Program," said Toro Rosso team principal Franz Tost.
"Daniil is a very talented driver, which can be seen from his results in all the junior categories.
"He impressed our team with a strong performance and very informative technical feedback at the young driver test in Silverstone.
"This suggests that the basic qualities from which he can progress are all in place.
"Daniil can be sure that we will use all our experience of training youngsters to give him the best possible start to his Formula One career."
Russia could have two teenage drivers on the starting grid in Australia next March, with the Sauber team hoping to fast track Sergey Sirotkin into a race seat.
The 18-year-old will try to earn an FIA super license during the post-season winter testing program, with the goal of racing at the inaugural Russian Grand Prix in Sochi in October.
