English Premier League champions Manchester United posted record third-quarter revenue of £91.7 million [$142 million] on the back of new sponsorship deals in Asia and Europe.
The club, who have just claimed their 20th Premier League title, reported a 52.2% increase in sponsorship revenue having announced new deals with two financial services providers in Denmark and Vietnam as well as an agreement with a Japanese social gaming company.
As one of the world's most popular and successful sport teams, United has a total of 36 corporate sponsors despite gross debt standing at £367.6 million.
Financial football expert Andy Green tweeted: "In next few years #MUFC will generate over £200m in surplus cash. What will it be used for?"
Last month, the club signed an eight year deal with U.S. insurance giant Aon, to brand the club's training kit and attach its name to the Carrington training ground.
Read more: Manchester United pen new multi-million dollar Aon deal
It is the first time the English Premier League giants have sold the branding rights to their coveted training ground on the outskirts of Manchester and represents another step in the club's strategy to increase revenues.
The drive for sponsorship revenue comes at a time when United is seeking to bring in new players for the 2013/14 season in September, as the team prepares to defend its domestic title and attempt to win the European Cup for fourth time.
Earlier this week, manager Alex Ferguson promised the club would be "competitive" in the summer transfer market as they hope to rival other title contenders such as Manchester City and Chelsea.
Speaking to Inside United, the club's official magazine, Ferguson said: "Hopefully the players we bring into the club in the next year or so will be of the quality we need."
United have reportedly been linked with moves for Borussia Dortmund's Polish striker Robert Lewandowski and Atletico Madrid's prolific forward Radamel Falcao.
Although United coasted to the Premier League title, Ferguson's side was knocked out of the Champions League by Real Madrid in the quarterfinals.
The Old Trafford club is owned by the American Glazer family, who oversaw the club's listing on the New York Stock Exchange last August.
For the 2011/2012 season, United increased revenues by £14.2 million to £117.6 million, the highest of any club in the Premier League.
