(CNN Student News) -- May 6, 2010
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Athens, Greece  • Chandeleur Islands, Louisiana • Sacramento, California
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Hi, I'm Carl Azuz, and this is CNN Student News. Give us 10 minutes, we'll give you today's commercial-free headlines, starting with protests over in Greece.
First Up: Greek Debt Crisis
AZUZ: The country has a massive debt. We're talking nearly $400 billion. That is bigger than the entire nation's economy. The Greek government is considering some plans to get try to that debt under control. Those plans include spending cuts, and those are not popular with a lot of workers. Yesterday, thousands of Greeks went on strike. They walked off the job because of the proposed cuts and they took to the streets to protest. This one is at the Greek parliament building. Lawmakers were inside going over those proposals to cut spending. The people outside are workers: teachers, doctors, transportation employees. They were demanding that members of parliament come outside and face them.
Of course, police were out all over the country to deal with these protests. In some spots, that led to fighting between the police and the protesters. Some people in the crowds threw bottles, rocks and sticks at the officers. In the capital city of Athens, a fire bomb hit a bank, killing three people inside. Parliament lawmakers held a moment of silence for the victims.
In terms of Greece's debt, the country is getting some help from the European Union. On Sunday, it agreed to an aid package worth $145 billion. But in order to get that package, Greece must adopt some of those cost-cutting measures that it's considering.
Is this Legit?
MATT CHERRY, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is this legit? The U.S. government has a list of people who are not allowed on board airplanes. Legit! It's called the No Fly list.
No-Fly
AZUZ: And the government is making some updates to it, specifically, how often airlines have to check it. This is based on changes to the No Fly list or when names are added to it. In the past, airlines had 24 hours to check the list after they were told about an update. Now, they'll have to do it within two hours. The goal of this is to prevent a repeat of what happened on Monday.
That's when Faisal Shahzad, a suspect who's been arrested in connection with the failed bombing plot in Times Square, was allowed to get on a plane even though his name was on the No Fly list. Shahzad's name had been added to the list earlier in the day. But because it was within that old, 24-hour window, the airline hadn't checked the updated list when it sold him a ticket. As we told you yesterday, there were other things that did raise red flags, including the fact that Shahzad bought his ticket in cash. So, authorities were able to find and arrest him before his plane took off.
Oil Spill
AZUZ: One leak down, two to go. BP says the smallest of three leaks in the Gulf of Mexico has been sealed. More than 200,000 gallons of oil have been leaking into the Gulf every day. Plans are now underway to stop the biggest leak. In the next few days, officials expect to place a pollution containment chamber -- the four-story, steel box you see right here -- over that leak. If it works, a second box will be used to cover the last leak. The plan is to collect the oil inside those boxes and then pipe it up to ships on the surface. Reports indicate that the oil is getting closer to shore. Miles of booms -- these sort of floating barriers -- have been put in place to try to control the spill. Gary Tuchman gives us a closer look.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
GARY TUCHMAN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We're 35 miles south of Gulfport Mississippi. These are the Chandeleur Islands, actually in Louisiana waters, and right now you are looking at the oil that is threatening to come on this island.
Protective boom's right here; this yellow thing is the boom. It looks like foam. But this is the oil from the massive oil slick.
People on the coastline, obviously in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida, are very concerned. But we can tell you, because we took a three-and-a-half hour boat ride to get out here, that the oil is still at least 35 or 40 miles away. I mean, you could see it right now: If it wasn't for this protective boom, it would be on these islands.
These islands are amazing wildlife refuges. They are places where migratory birds come on their way between North, Central and South America. And you can see the birds as the sun is going down on these islands.
These islands used to be about 20 miles long, north to south. But because of hurricanes over the years -- Katrina, George -- it's now about 16 miles. And ultimately, the fear is that in the years to come and if there's more damage here, the islands will be gone.
They're uninhabited; no one lives here. Although about a couple hundred years ago, there were a couple hundred people who lived on the islands. Now, it's a wildlife refuge. The oil you see is right here next to the boom, and there's great concern it will go over the boom, on these islands, and then on the coastline. This is Gary Tuchman, CNN, on the Chandeleur Islands, Louisiana.
(END VIDEO)
This Day in History
(ON SCREEN GRAPHIC)
May 6, 1915 - George Herman "Babe" Ruth hits his first major league home run.
May 6, 1937 - The Hindenburg, the largest airship ever built, explodes as it arrives in New Jersey.
May 6, 1954 - Roger Bannister becomes the first person to run the mile in less than four minutes.
Shoutout
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Ms. Neal at Tarkanian Middle School in Las Vegas, Nevada! Which of these events takes place in the month of May? You know what to do! Is it: A) Armed Forces Day, B) Veterans Day, C) Armistice Day or D) Flag Day? You've got three seconds -- GO! Armed Forces Day is a salute to all branches of the U.S. Armed Forces, and it falls on May 15. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
Wounded Warriors
AZUZ: From tanks to Humvees and even back to cavalry horses, troops are used to riding into battle. But the Soldier Ride is something that happens after the fighting is over. It's part of the Wounded Warriors program, which honors and helps members of the military who have been injured. Last week marked the fourth cycle of the annual Soldier Ride. You can have a look at it right here.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
TED WADE, WOUNDED WARRIOR: It's like the doors are opening and you're walking outside for the first time.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Come on. You can do it. Keep going, man.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All cyclists, you must stay in the lane the cruiser is in when you're over there for them to accept the responsibility of the escort.
STEVEN NARDIZZI, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, WOUNDED WARRIOR PROJECT: This is a great event. It's progressed into a rehab ride where we've got over 30 warriors here right now participating in a ride and getting out, sometimes for the first time, of a hospital and learning what they can accomplish again in life.
SARA WADE, TED'S WIFE: I also always see a big change in his mood with the bike ride coming up. There's a lot of anticipation and a lot of excitement.
T. WADE: I've been going to the gym and riding exercise bikes for several hours.
S. WADE: Ted had neurosurgery over in Germany and spent about two weeks in a neurosurgery intensive care unit there. It was doubtful that Ted was going to survive. It's kind of surreal and it definitely puts things into perspective. I think it definitely helps you stay motivated when sometimes it's easy this far post-injury to burn out from rehabilitation.
T. WADE: It's continuing my momentum for the future, and with the way things are looking, good into the future.
(END VIDEO)
Blog Report
AZUZ: Really like that story. Well, Ashleigh is talking to us. She says teachers are like her second parents. They help her fix her mistakes and learn from them. She's just one of hundreds of people paying tribute to teachers this Teacher Appreciation Week! Renee and Andrea say Mrs. MacDonald inspired them to be better people and to remember equality. Helen calls Mr. Giampetro a big influence on her decision to become a teacher. Mrs. Kelley is a teacher that Elijah can really relate to. She's also the only one in class who laughs at my puns. I'm glad someone's laughing, Mrs. Kelley! Zach, Hannah, Wendy and Chase all think Mrs. Vann is the best teacher ever, saying her sense of humor helps them learn. Shelby, Matthew, Lacey and Hannah all praise Mrs. Chapp for making learning fun. We wish we could read all of these comments on air, but you can see them all on our blog at CNNStudentNews.com!
Before We Go
AZUZ: Before we go, lawmakers have to deal with some serious issues. For example, serious questions about wildlife, like whose frog can jump the farthest. Apparently, annoying the frog is a viable strategy, but not a winning one. This frog jumping competition is an annual event at the California state capitol, one that's sure to put a little hop in your step. The winner has a name that is just perfect for government work.
Goodbye
AZUZ: And that name is Tad-poll worker. It is a great thing when they write the puns for us. That ribbeting competition brings today's show to a close. For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.
