A juror in the George Zimmerman trial says she feels the man who killed Trayvon Martin "got away with murder."
"George Zimmerman got away with murder, but you can't get away from God. And at the end of the day, he's going to have a lot of questions and answers he has to deal with," Juror B29 told ABC, according to an article posted on the network's website Thursday. "(But) the law couldn't prove it."
The juror, who used only her first name of Maddy out of concerns for her safety, told ABC that she and others on the panel felt Zimmerman was guilty, but that wasn't enough.
"You can't put the man in jail even though in our hearts we felt he was guilty," she said. "But we had to grab our hearts and put it aside and look at the evidence."
Thursday night, Martin's mother said she was devastated after hearing the juror's comments.
"It is devastating for my family to hear the comments from juror B29, comments which we already knew in our hearts to be true. That George Zimmerman literally got away with murder," Sybrina Fulton said in a written statement. "This new information challenges our nation once again to do everything we can to make sure that this never happens to another child."
Maddy is the second juror to speak about the high-profile case since the six-person, all-female jury acquitted Zimmerman earlier this month.
She and other jurors also have identified themselves by their numbers from the jury pool.
Opinion: What if both were white?
Last week the woman known as Juror B37 told CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360" that Zimmerman "didn't do anything unlawful" and was "justified" in shooting 17-year-old Martin last year.
Zimmerman has been out of the public eye since the jury found him not guilty of second degree murder on July 13. His parents told ABC News last week that their family has received an "enormous amount of death threats."
He fatally shot Martin in the Sanford, Florida, neighborhood where Zimmerman and Martin's father lived in February 2012. Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, had a confrontation with the unarmed African-American teen after calling police to report a suspicious person, and he said he shot Martin in self-defense.
The case became a flash point in debates over racial profiling, and thousands attended vigils across the country over the weekend, decrying the verdict.
Martin's father goes to Capitol Hill
Maddy, 36, is Puerto Rican and a mother of eight children, ABC said. She was the only minority to deliberate in the case. She told ABC that the case was never about race to her.
At the beginning of deliberations, she told ABC, she wanted to convict Zimmerman of second-degree murder. But she realized on the second day of deliberations that there wasn't enough proof to convict him of murder or the lesser charge of manslaughter.
"I was the juror that was going to give them the hung jury. I fought to the end," she said, according to ABC.
Juror B37 told CNN that the jury was initially split -- three and three along the line of guilt. Juror B37 was among those who believed Zimmerman was not guilty from the start.
She stressed that she and the other jurors took their responsibility seriously.
"I don't want people to think that we didn't think about this, and we didn't care about Trayvon Martin, because we did. We're very sad that it happened to him," she said.
Juror B29 told ABC that the decision is still weighing heavily on her, and she thinks she owes Martin's parents an apology.
"It's hard for me to sleep, it's hard for me to eat because I feel I was forcefully included in Trayvon Martin's death," she told ABC. "And as I carry him on my back, I'm hurting as much (as) Trayvon Martin's mother because there's no way that any mother should feel that pain."
Zimmerman lawyer: Jurors followed law, not their hearts
CNN's Vivan Kuo contributed to this report.
