(InStyle.com) -- Style, beauty and a certain je ne sais quoi is in the genes for these ultra-glamorous mother/daughter duos.
Goldie Hawn and Kate Hudson
Goldie made a name for herself starring in romantic comedies that highlighted her sense of humor as well as her acting chops.
If that sounds familiar, it's because it's the same exact career trajectory her gorgeous daughter Kate Hudson chose to take. Along with loads of talent, these two also share a love for a laid-back California-girl style.
Blythe Danner and Gwyneth Paltrow
Acclaimed actress Blythe Danner passed along regal good looks and a whole lot of talent to her Oscar-winning daughter. The consummately chic Gwyneth Paltrow is well on her way to becoming a lifestyle guru for her generation with her tip-filled e-mail newsletter GOOP.
InStyle.com: Hollywood's hottest moms
And, although her sexy ultra-minis may seem far afield from her mother's sophisticated suits, she draws inspiration from Blythe: "In her, I see the incredible beauty of someone who has lived a life."
Demi Moore and Rumer Willis
Rumer Willis scored more than just Demi Moore's raven locks and high cheekbones -- the up-and-coming actress has an all-access pass to her mother's killer wardrobe. Despite this shared resource, Rumer has developed her own enviable edgy-glam style, a true departure from mom's ever-ladylike looks.
Madonna and Lourdes Leon
With one of the world's most famous women as your mom, Lourdes Leon has some pretty tall -- and expensive -- shoes to fill.
But the teenager, who is helping her mum design a line of clothing for Macy's, is out to prove she's a creative force to be reckoned with, too.
InStyle.com: Mother's Day gifts under $100
"She reminds me of me when I was younger. She just goes for it and tries different things," Madonna said recently about Lourdes (aka Lola).
Susan Sarandon and Eva Amurri
Susan Sarandon and her daughter Eva Amurri have no shortage of talent or style. Eva's racking up the acting credits with stints on Californication and How I Met Your Mother and drawing all eyes on the red carpet in boldly hued designs by pal Chris Benz.
It's no wonder Eva should befriend the fashion elite -- her mother took her to Todd Oldham and Diane von Furstenberg shows when she was just a kid.
Jane Birkin and Charlotte Gainsbourg
Seeing as how her mother had an Hermes bag named after her (the Birkin), it's no surprise that Charlotte Gainsbourg has become a style icon herself. In addition to being a popular French actress and pop singer (another hand-me-down from mom), Charlotte is also Nicholas Ghesquiere's muse for Balenciaga -- check her out in the house's new fragrance campaign.
Isabella Rossellini and Elettra Wiedemann
As Ingrid Bergman's daughter and granddaughter respectively, Isabella Rossellini and Elettra Wiedemann were born into serious Hollywood royalty. Both mother and daughter are also spokeswomen for Lancôme -- quite a distinction!
Meryl Streep and Mamie Gummer
Meryl Streep and Mamie Gummer may share the same patrician profile and wheat-blond locks, but the gifted pair are no mirror image when it comes to wardrobe.
While the legendary Streep favors long, retro-inspired gowns, her ingenue daughter can be spotted out in ultra-modern little draped dresses. Mamie will have plenty of opportunities to air her style on the red carpet -- following in her prolific mom's footsteps, she has three movies coming out this year.
Bianca Jagger and Jade Jagger
As a Studio 54 fixture and '70s glamazon, Bianca Jagger set more than a few trends, much like her jewelry designing daughter Jade does now. The younger Jagger also inherited her mom's effortlessly chic style and exotic good looks.
Katie Holmes and Suri Cruise
The paparazzi descended as soon as little Suri was born and have yet to let up on the tot and her famous mother.
InStyle.com: Suri Cruise's cutest outfits
The twosome have been spotted doing everything from going to ballet class and makeup shopping to eating ice cream together. And with a side gig as a designer, Katie is teaching her mini-me to be quite the fashionista.
See more mother/daughter muses at InStyle.com
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2010 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
