(CNN Student News) -- November 13, 2013
As the Philippines struggles to recover from Typhoon Haiyan, CNN Student News shares some stories of survival and desperation. We also report on events in London, Iran, and China before we visit what's officially been declared the tallest U.S. skyscraper. Plus, after hearing a story about the return of discovered money, we ask students to consider how they would react to finding a stash of cash.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How important is video footage in stories of survival? What form of media is most powerful for communicating these stories?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. nuclear talks
2. captive breeding
3. spire
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What reportedly happened during international negotiations regarding Iran's nuclear program? What's the next step regarding this issue?
2. What is the tallest building in the world? What controversy arose over determining the tallest building in the U.S.? How was that issue resolved?
3. According to the report, what was found inside a desk bought on the Internet? What did the desk's new owners do with what they found?
Discussion Questions:
1. What stories of survival have you heard in the wake of the typhoon that struck the Philippines? What resources do you think survivors of these experiences will need in the months and years ahead? Explain.
2. What are your thoughts on the funeral of 99-year-old World War II veteran Harold Jellicoe Percival? Why do you think people found it important to attend his funeral?
3. What actions would you take after finding a large sum of money inside an item your purchased? What options does a person have when it comes to found money? Would the circumstances surrounding the discovery of money (including the amount) influence your decision on what to do with it? If so, how? If not, why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Philippines
North America
New York City
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
