(CNN)It's proving to be a roller-coaster ride for Ghana at this year's Africa Cup of Nations.
After the heartache of conceding a last-minute winner against Senegal in its opener, ecstasy has followed with the Black Stars stealing all three points at the death in their second Group C match against tournament favorite Algeria.
Following 91 minutes of a game of football that had very little to show for it, Asamoah Gyan -- back for Ghana after a bout of malaria -- was on hand to keep his nation's dream of a first Africa Cup of Nations title in 33 years alive.
Despite a poor showing, but for a handful of minutes at this tournament, Avram Grant's men will take heart from beating the competition's highest-ranked team -- the last time it defeated Algeria in the Africa Cup of Nations, it went on to win the whole thing in 1982.
The result means Ghana is now level on points with Algeria but leapfrogs the North African nation into Group C's second qualifying spot due to its superior head-to-head record.
The day's late game between South Africa and Senegal ended 1-1, leaving Group C very tight -- South Africa sit top, one point ahead of Ghana and Algeria, with bottom-placed South Africa a further two points adrift.
Ghana's chances of a victory against Algeria did not look quite so bright at halftime, however, following a cagey, scrappy 45 minutes bereft of any real quality, with the Black Stars desperate not to lose and the Desert Foxes happy with a draw.
Given that it was pretty much a must-not-lose affair for Ghana in Mongomo, Equatorial Guinea, jangling nerves were perhaps to be expected.
And they certainly had their wicked way in the first half, with a poor touch from Brimah Razak in Ghana's goal almost handing Yacine Brahimi the opener on a plate, only for the keeper to recover in time.
Algeria, equally, struggled to make an impact, lacking the enthusiasm going forward it showed in last summer's World Cup, though it did come closest to scoring in a drab first half through Nabil Bentaleb, who fired wide an Aissa Mandi delivery.
Ghana appeared a somewhat different team after the break, perhaps realizing that three points might be vital towards ensuring a first Africa Cup of Nations group-stage exit since 2006 is avoided.
Gyan first went close, heading an Harrison Afful cross agonizingly wide, while Andre Ayew and Jordan Ayew also had chances -- the older sibling heading over after his younger brother had earlier fired a flicked effort off target.
Inspired by its opponent, Algeria also picked up its performance going forward, resulting in a rather more open second 45 minutes.
One constant from the first half, however, remained -- a lack of quality in the final third.
That was until a shattered Gyan latched onto a long ball forward over the top deep into stoppage time and picked out the bottom corner.
"Asamoah is a great player with a fantastic attitude. He was ill but he played the 90 minutes and scored at the end," Grant told FIFA's official website following his first competitive win as Ghana coach.
"He is a great player but also a great personality. But it's not just the victory of one player. It's the victory of a whole team."
The second match at Estadio de Mongomo saw South Africa and Senegal play out a far more entertaining affair, with the second half coming alive after an uninspiring opening 45 minutes.
Although eventually succumbing to a 3-1 defeat against Algeria Monday, it was South Africa that started the brighter and took the lead on that occasion -- and it was similar for the Bafana Bafana this time around.
The 1996 champion was the more threatening team in the first half and came out of the blocks firing after the restart as Oupa Manyisa converted a cross from the right into the bottom corner of the net with an excellent first-time finish.
Senegal, insipid in attack up to that point, was soon awoken and thought it had found an equalizer through Sadio Mane shortly after, only for the goal to be disallowed due to offside.
Minutes later, though, and the Lions of Teranga had leveled, with Kara Mbodj rising highest to head home Pape Diop's free-kick past the stranded Jackson Mabokgwane.
With momentum on its side, it was Senegal who looked the more likely to score another, attempting to replicate Monday's comeback victory over Ghana.
This time, however, there was to be no last-minute winner for Alain Giresse's side, yet it still had the consolation of ending the evening sitting atop Group C.
