Two hostages freed by a Colombian rebel group reunited with their family members in the country's capital Friday.
Speaking to reporters, one of the freed hostages called for renewed dialogue between the government and insurgents.
"Humanitarian exchange is the first step toward a friendly understanding, which permits the return of our brothers deprived of their liberty," politician Armando Acuna said shortly after he was released by the FARC leftist guerrilla group Friday.
Marine Henry Lopez Martinez was also released Friday and met family members at an airport in the country's capital.
"This is the most beautiful moment of the liberations, the loving reuniting of the families. For this, all the effort is worth it," former Sen. Piedad Cordoba, who helped coordinate the humanitarian mission to free them, said in a Twitter post.
Acuna and Lopez are among a group of five hostages that the FARC leftist guerrilla organization pledged to release in December.
Red Cross rescuers also participated in Friday's mission. Helicopters bearing the organization's symbol flew into the jungle Wednesday to free the first of the group: a councilman from the town of San Jose de Guaviare.
Two other hostages -- a police major and a military service member -- are expected to be released Sunday.
Some have suggested the hostage releases could fuel renewed dialogue between Colombia's government and the rebels.
But news of two more kidnappings by the FARC drew the ire of Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos.
The president said Thursday that he was tempted to call off the rescue mission after learning that two workers from the Carton de Colombia company had been kidnapped in southwestern Colombia Wednesday night.
"We are not going to suspend the liberations, because I do not want to frustrate the excitement and hope of the families of these hostages that are going to be freed, but what I want to say is that this game, this double standard, is totally unacceptable," he said.
The FARC, or Revolutionary Armed Forces of Columbia, have been at war with the Colombian government since the 1960s.
Journalist Fernando Ramos contributed to this report.
