Atlanta (CNN)From bad to worse.
The boyfriend of Bobbi Kristina Brown, who is fighting for her life at an Atlanta hospital, unleashed against her family Monday on Twitter, defending his actions and accusing her father of wanting her money.
Brown is the daughter of R&B singer Bobby Brown and the late star Whitney Houston.
"Bobby seen his daughter 4 times in the last 5 yrs," Nick Gordon tweeted. "Now him and his family want Whitneys $$$."
Gordon has said he's been prevented from visiting Brown in the hospital -- an accusation her father has denied.
"Let me be very clear, Mr. Gordon was offered an opportunity to potentially visit Bobbi Kristina and he declined to meet the terms of any possible visit," Bobby Brown said in a statement through his lawyers.
"Obviously Mr. Gordon is not as desperate to visit Bobbi Kristina as he wants the world to believe."
The statement did not specify what the terms were.
Without specifying the details of those terms, Gordon's lawyers said they advised him against meeting them, "particularly in light of Mr. Brown's inability to guarantee access."
"In an effort to do all he can to visit, Nick has repeatedly offered to meet with Mr. Brown privately to discuss his request in person, rather than through lawyers," lawyers Randall M. Kessler and Joe S. Habachy said in a statement. "Those offers have also been rejected. We hope Mr. Brown has a change of heart."
Bobby Brown's attorney responded with another statement, saying Gordon has yet to tell Brown in writing what happened to his daughter.
Bobbi Kristina Brown, 21, remains in a medically induced coma at Emory University Hosital more than three weeks after she was found unresponsive in a bathtub.
Police have said they're treating her case as a criminal investigation after she was found on January 31 at her home in Roswell, Georgia.
The extent of her injuries is not known.
Her mother, who died in 2012, was similarly found in a bathtub. A coroner ruled Houston's death an accidental drowning, with heart disease and cocaine use listed as contributing factors.
Brown is her only child.
CNN's Faith Karimi contributed to this report.
