(CNN Student News) -- January 19, 2011
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
• Pakistan • Haiti • Somalia
Transcript
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: A former dictator shows back up in his home country 25 years after he was forced out of power. What happened? We have the answer in today's edition of CNN Student News!
First Up: Pakistan Quake
AZUZ: First up, an early-morning earthquake hits Pakistan. This happened around 1:30 a.m. local time on Wednesday in a remote area in southwestern Pakistan. Officials said the quake had an initial magnitude of 7.2. That would mean it was a "major" quake. There were reports that it lasted 20 or 30 seconds. One scientist said it's not uncommon for earthquakes to hit this region.
China & U.S. Relationship
AZUZ: Well, the leaders of the world's two largest economies get together in Washington, D.C. We're talking about President Obama and Chinese President Hu Jintao. The Chinese leader is in the U.S. for a visit. The two presidents are scheduled to sit down today to talk about some of the issues that are important to both nations.
President Hu landed in Washington yesterday. In addition to President Obama, the Chinese leader is scheduled to sit down with leaders in Congress and business executives. The issue of trade is likely to come up at all of those meetings. The U.S. and Chinese economies are connected in a lot of ways, and each country has had some complaints about the other one's policies. Jill Dougherty has more for us on the connections between the U.S. and China and the current status of the relationship between these two world powers.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Two nations oceans apart, locked in a complex relationship that will help chart the 21st century.
HILLARY CLINTON, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: Today, our relationship has gone global. We debate and discuss nearly every major international issue.
DOUGHERTY: Friends or rivals? A former deputy secretary of state says for the U.S., China is both.
RICHARD ARMITAGE, FORMER DEPUTY SECRETARY OF STATE: They are a factor of life as the second largest economy in the world, by every measure, whether it's political, social, economic, and for that matter security. And furthermore, they have very key interests of their own in areas that are extraordinarily important to us.
DOUGHERTY: Spin the globe and you see China's growing competition with the U.S. for access and influence. From Africa, where China craves oil and other resources, to Latin America, in search of commodities and alternatives to its heavy investment in the U.S. For many Americans, China, for years, has meant bargains. But increasingly, China means jobs for Americans at home.
U.S. TREASURY SECRETARY TIMOTHY GEITHNER: Our exports to China are growing at twice the rate of growth of our exports to the rest of the world. These exports support hundreds of thousands of jobs across the nation in all sectors.
U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY ROBERT GATES: We welcome a China that plays a constructive role on the world stage.
DOUGHERTY: Yet China's burgeoning military power is stoking concern in Asia and the U.S.
GATES: But questions about its intentions and opaque military modernization program have been a source of concern to its neighbors.
DOUGHERTY: Washington says with power comes responsibility. For now, China looks outward, mostly to benefit itself
ARMITAGE: China's outreach, I believe, in the main is based on what they perceive is their economic and political interest. However, it is the case that this compels them on occasion to deal with what we consider pariah regimes.
DOUGHERTY: The U.S. really needs China's help in pressing Iran and North Korea on their nuclear programs. But on every world issue, from terrorism to climate change to piracy on the high seas, Washington also looks to Beijing.
CLINTON: Embracing the obligations that come with being a 21st century power will help to realize a future that will give the Chinese people even more, in fact, unimagined opportunities. But that means accepting a share of the burden of solving common problems,
DOUGHERTY: And that, Clinton argues, includes respecting human rights, releasing political prisoners and protecting ethnic minorities in Tibet.
(END VIDEO)
Health Care Repeal?
AZUZ: Moving on to our next story today. The U.S. House of Representatives, there's a vote scheduled today to repeal, or overturn, the controversial health care reform law. During last year's midterm election campaigns, a lot of Republicans said they'd try to overturn the law if they were elected. They won a majority in the House, so this vote is a way for them to keep that promise. Most people though -- including most Republicans -- don't expect the health care law to be completely overturned. That's because an outright repeal has to be passed by the House and the Senate, and Democrats have a majority in the U.S. Senate.
Shoutout
STAN CASE, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's first Shoutout goes out to Mr. Ireland and Ms. Van Gelder's class at Palo Verde High School in Tucson, Arizona! Jean-Claude "Baby Doc" Duvalier is a former dictator of what country? Is it: A) Algeria, B) Cuba, C) France or D) Haiti? You've got three seconds -- GO! Duvalier ruled Haiti for 15 years; he was forced out of the country in 1986. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout!
"Baby Doc" Returns
AZUZ: "Baby Doc" Duvalier is back in Haiti this week. He showed up in the Caribbean nation on Sunday. Yesterday, he was taken into custody while authorities decided whether or not to officially arrest him. Human rights groups say that while Duvalier was in power, thousands of Haitians were killed or tortured. He was also accused of taking money from the country's treasury. No one's really sure why "Baby Doc" -- he's the person waving -- returned to Haiti. One of his associates said it was connected to the anniversary of last year's earthquake. Duvalier was given control of the country by his father, who was known as "Papa Doc." That's how the younger Duvalier got the nickname "Baby Doc."
Shoutout Extra Credit
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for a Shoutout Extra Credit! Which of these countries is part of the Horn of Africa? You know what to do! Is it: A) Somalia, B) Liberia, C) Tunisia or D) Namibia? Rewind the clock to three seconds -- GO! Of these options, only Somalia is part of the Horn of Africa. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout Extra Credit!
Pirate Proof
AZUZ: The area around the Horn of Africa, specifically, the waters off the coast of Somalia, is home to more pirate attacks than anywhere else in the world. That's according to a new report that found 2010 was the worst year ever for piracy worldwide. Zain Verjee looks at some of the ways companies and governments can protect themselves from pirates.
(BEGIN VIDEO)
ZAIN VERJEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The hope is this can ward off pirates. It may seem laughable, but mannequins posing as guards in the dead of night could fool pirates and force them to flee. There are other tactics, as one NATO commander tells me.
LARRY TRIM, NATO COMMANDER: Barbed wire, perhaps, around their ship. They have extra lookouts posted to look for Somali pirates. They have a routine where they can find fire flares, water hoses, etc.
VERJEE: Warships try to stop pirates before they hit major shipping lanes like the Gulf of Aden. The captain would have seen a skiff out there and then ordered out the Marines to go and deal with the pirates.
TRIM: We take away their equipment. We take away their mother ships, which is damaging to them, and then send them back to shore.
VERJEE: In Mombasa, Kenya, the Greek commander of this warship supports operations around Somalia for the European Naval Force, EU NAVFOR. He tells me what's tough.
CAPTAIN VASILEIOS EFSTATHIOU, EU NAVAL FORCE SOMALIA: The area is really huge. The area of operation is equal about the size of the United States.
VERJEE: Just compare the size here. A powerful warship like this one, completely outfitted with weapons and technology, is chasing around boats smaller than the size of this one out on the Indian Ocean. Deep in a building in central London, one private, maritime security firm has got a bird's-eye view. They're watching feeds, tracking vessels and weather patterns.
RAURI DOWDS, MARITIME UNDERWATER SECURITY CONSULTANCY: We analyze them to try and create a picture of what's real and what's not.
VERJEE: They help steer ships in real time, sometimes to rougher waters where small pirate skiffs can't operate.
DOWDS: We always consider factors such as rainfall and most importantly the wind.
VERJEE: Everyone I speak to tells me there's only one real solution for Somalia. That's not on the sea, but on the shore, where only a government that works can control its people. For now, as Somali pirates plan attacks, real men, and, oh, let's call them reinforcements, patrol the high seas hoping ships pass safely.
(END VIDEO)
Before We Go
AZUZ: We have another singing sensation for today's Before We Go segment. Maestro, please take your seat. A quick look to make sure that the audience is paying attention. And now, you make sure you have the perfect pitch, and let the performance begin. Something tells me this won't earn a standing ovation. The crooning canine's owners say he practices at the piano three or four times every day. It sounds painful!
Goodbye
AZUZ: But I guess after a while, they just learned tune him out. Luckily, they're music and dog lovers. Otherwise, that little guy might be flat. We hope you'll note that CNN Student News returns tomorrow, when we pitch out more commercial-free headlines. Bye bye!
