Australian pop star Kylie Minogue and the professor who created Dolly the sheep are among the prominent figures who have received awards from Queen Elizabeth II in her annual New Year Honors list.
Kylie Minogue battled back to health after suffering from breast cancer.
Minogue, 39 , and Prof. Ian Wilmut were appointed to the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the list, which is chosen by the queen on the advise of the British Prime Minister Gordon Brown.
Other award winners included Stuart Rose, the head of the British retailer Marks and Spencer, who was handed a knighthood and "Lord of the Rings" star Ian McKellen.
The award of a Companion of Honour for the 68-year-old British actor, who already has a knighthood and has been a longtime campaigner for gay rights, recognized his efforts to promote "equality."
The New Year's list recognizes a wide range of people who are thought to have made a positive contribution to British life.
The queen hands out a range of honors including knighthoods, life peerages and gallantry awards for those serving in the armed forces and civilians.
The list is published in the official newspaper of the British monarchy, the London Gazette.
The honor's list usually attracts attention for the high-profile figures honored; previous recipients of knighthoods include the pop stars Paul McCartney and Mick Jagger but anyone can be nominated for an award.
This year's list, for example, includes some of the people who took part in the rescue operations following the flooding that affected large parts of England this summer.
Capt. Tracy Palmer, from the Salvation Army in the northern English town of Workshop, was made a Member of the British Empire (MBE) after she provided shelter for children caught up in the floods.
Wilmut, 63, created headlines around the world after he led the team of scientists that created the first mammal produced through genetic cloning in 1996.
Kylie Minogue has sold more than 60 million records worldwide in a music career lasting 20 years.
The Australian pop diva battled back to health after she was forced to cancel a world tour when she was diagnosed with breast cancer two years ago. E-mail to a friend
