Authorities have obtained a search warrant for the home where a missing 11-month-old Missouri girl was reportedly last seen, Kansas City police said Tuesday.
The warrant allows investigators to comb the house in the coming days and also bars the family of Lisa Irwin from returning home. A patrol car has been posted outside.
Lisa was reported missing at 4 a.m. October 4, after Lisa's father, Jeremy Irwin, came home from work to find the door unlocked, lights on and a window that had been tampered with.
Lisa's mother, Deborah Bradley, said she last saw Lisa at 6:40 p.m. the night before.
The developments came as a potentially promising lead in the case turned out to be a false alarm.
The Riley County Police Department received a report Tuesday that "Baby Lisa" may have been sighted in Manhattan, Kansas -- more 100 miles west of Kansas City.
A baby with two "suspicious" looking women were reportedly seen in a local deli.
Authorities were able to "confirm that the child seen was not the child missing from Kansas City," police said.
Earlier in the week, Bradley said in an NBC interview she was drunk the night the infant disappeared and that she had last seen the baby about four hours earlier than initially reported.
Bradley told NBC she is afraid she will be arrested. Police have accused her of killing Lisa, she said, and told her that she failed a lie detector test.
"I was the last one with her," a tearful Bradley said in the interview. "And from judging on how the questioning went, that's kind of a fear that I have. And the main fear with that is, if they arrest me, people are going to stop looking for her. And then I'll never see her again, and I'll never know what happened."
Asked how much she had been drinking that night, Bradley said, "enough to be drunk."
But she rejected the notion that she could have harmed her daughter while under the influence of alcohol.
"No, no, no," she told NBC. "And if I thought there was a chance, I'd say it. No. No. I don't think alcohol changes a person enough to do something like that."
Asked whether he had questions about Bradley, Jeremy Irwin told NBC, "No. There's no question to be had there. I know who she is. I know the kind of mother she is."
Irwin said it's possible someone could have entered the house without Bradley hearing, as the couple's bedroom is on the opposite corner of the house from Lisa's room and Bradley sleeps with a fan at high speed.
Lisa is described as being 30 inches tall with blue eyes and blond hair, according to police. She weighs between 26 and 30 pounds and was last seen wearing purple shorts and a purple shirt with white kittens on it.
The missing girl has two bottom teeth and a "beauty mark" on her right outer thigh, police said. At the time of her disappearance, she had a cold with a cough.
CNN's Bill Kirkos contributed to this report.
