MONTE CARLO, Monaco  -- Russia's Yelena Isinbayeva has broken her own world record in the women's pole vault with a leap of 5.04 meters as she warmed up for her Olympic defense.
Isinbayeva broke her own women's pole vault world record on her third attempt in Monaco.
The record came at the Monaco Grand Prix on Tuesday on her third and final attempt at the height.
Her previous record of 5.03 meters was set in Rome on July 11.
Isinbayeva is the reigning Olympic and world champion.
Asafa Powell claimed his third 100 meters success inside a week when he raced clear in his season-best time of 9.82 seconds.
Powell shaved 0.06sec off his previous season-best of 9.88, set last Tuesday in Stockholm, where he saw off fellow Jamaican and world record holder Usain Bolt.
On Tuesday Powell was too hot for Davis Patton of the U.S. (9.98) and Nesta Carter of Jamaica (10.02), the fourth best time of the season all the more impressive given the calm conditions.
"I am very happy," said Powell. "I feel great, very fresh. I've got a world record in my legs. I am very confident. My goal is to be consistent."
A tough headwind had compromised Powell's attempts to have a tilt at Bolt's mark although he still cruised to a weekend victory at the London Grand Prix at Crystal Palace in 9.94sec.
Other Tuesday highlights saw Jamaica's Melaine Walker set a year mark in the women's 400m hurdles in clocking 53.48 sec.
Walker, who shattered her own personal best of 54.14 in the process, will hope her performance augurs well for the Beijing Games, where Aussie two-time world champion Jana Rawlinson will not be competing owing to a toe injury.
Kenyan Daniel Kipchirchir Komen also set a year best mark in the 1500m, crossing the line in 3 min 31.49sec to take 0.08sec off compatriot Augustine Kiprono Choge's June 1 showing in Berlin.
The 23-year-old's win tempered the disappointment of missing out on an Olympic berth.
Britain's Martyn Rooney also improved his personal best in the 400 meters for the second successive race, following up his win in the London Grand Prix with victory in 44.72 seconds.
The Monaco Grand Prix was the last major international track and field meeting before the Beijing Olympics which start on August 8.
