More than $60,000 worth of computers, jewelry and personal items have been stolen from the Palo Alto, California, home of the late Apple co-founder Steve Jobs.
Kariem McFarlin, 35, of Alameda was arrested and charged with residential burglary and selling stolen property, according to Scott Tsui, supervising deputy district attorney for Santa Clara County. McFarlin remains in the Santa Clara County jail on $500,000 bail pending a court hearing on Monday, Tsui said.
The break-in occurred July 17, although details of the burglary and McFarlin's August 2 arrest are now just becoming public. The house was being renovated last month, and nobody was home at the time, Tsui said.
Report: iPhone 5 to go on sale September 21
The prosecutor said McFarlin was likely unaware of the home's significance.
"It appears to be a random deal," he told CNN. "We don't have anything to show that (Jobs' family) was targeted."
Tsui declined to provide details about exactly what was taken from the house. But a report in the San Jose Mercury News says that the burglar made off with iPads, iPhones, Macs, Tiffany jewelry, Beats headphones and Cristal Champagne, among other items. He also took Steve Jobs' wallet, which contained his drivers' license and $1, the Mercury News reported.
Police tracked McFarlin down through the use of the stolen computer equipment, Tsui said. He declined to provide more specifics.
McFarlin, a former San Jose State football player, could face a maximum prison sentence of seven years and eight months. He has confessed and has written a letter of apology to Steve Jobs' widow, Laurene Powell, the Mercury News reported.
Jobs, the longtime Apple CEO, died in October at age 56 after a long bout with cancer. He shared the two-story, red-brick home with Powell and their three children.
An Apple representative contacted by CNN declined comment.
In his recent book "Steve Jobs," biographer Walter Isaacson describes the house as on a corner in a "family-friendly neighborhood" of old Palo Alto. Jobs bought the home in the early 1990s.
"It was a privileged realm ... but the homes were not ostentatious, and there were no high hedges or long drives shielding them from view," Isaacson wrote.
9 on trial in China in kidney for iPad case
How to protect your cloud data from hacks
CNN's Dan Simon contributed to this report.
