(CNN)Football has faced plenty of problems over racist and homophobic chanting and now a British broadcaster wants action taken after fans allegedly sang songs which mocked people with disabilities.
Kevin Kilbane, a former Republic of Ireland international who played with Everton in the English Premier League, reported West Ham supporters to the English Football Association for derogatory chants against Tottenham's Harry Kane during Sunday's game.
The former winger, who now works for the BBC, was not at the game but was shocked to hear "mong" chants had been sung at the game.
Kilbane was told about the chants by Andy Merriman -- a Tottenham season-ticket holder whose daughter lives with Down's syndrome. Kilbane's daughter Elsie has the same condition and he is a patron of the Down's Syndrome Association.
"The club emailed every supporter who had bought a ticket to Sunday's game to remind them that they were acting as ambassadors for West Ham United" a West Ham spokesman said Monday.
"If any individual is found to have behaved in an inappropriate way, the Club's simple, zero-tolerance policy dictates that they will face the strongest possible action, including the option of a life ban from the Boleyn Ground.
"If anyone has any information on such behavior we would urge them to report it to the Club, Kick It Out or the police so it can be investigated thoroughly."
Tottenham were not immediately available for comment when contacted by CNN.
"I am sure they understand they are causing offence," Kilbane told the Guardian.
"You cannot sweep it under the carpet and label it as ignorance. It is visible and clear and, like racist or homophobic chanting, it is intended to cause offence."
The FA confirmed to CNN that Kilbane, among others, had reported the incident and has promised a thorough investigation into the allegations.
"I want to be able to take my kids to football matches and when Elsie gets older she will understand about her condition and I would not want her to hear that kind of chanting," said Kilbane.
"If her sister Isla heard it, she would be devastated too, as my friend's sons were" said Kilbane.
In another incident on Sunday a group of men -- thought to be West Ham fans -- were filmed chanting anti-Semitic abuse on a train in North London.
Both episodes follow the racism storm that engulfed Chelsea after its fans pushed a black man out of a Paris Metro carriage last week.
