Hillary Clinton will likely run for president of the United States. But forgive the U.S.'s neighbors to the North for thinking the former secretary of state is considering a bid at prime minster, too.
Since leaving the State Department in 2013, Hillary Clinton has headlined six events in Canada and organizers in the country announced two more appearances in two different provinces on Monday.
Clinton will speak at an event in Winnipeg, Manitoba sponsored by CIBC, a large bank in Canada, on January 21, 2015, according to this ticket page. That same day, Clinton will speak at a similar event - also sponsored by CIBC, in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, according to a press release.
The opportunities in Canada not only allow her to make money off of speaker fees, but it gives her a platform to discuss global affairs and her time running the State Department, a subject she's pretty comfortable revisiting.
With the addition of these appearances, Clinton has now headlined events in six of Canada's ten provinces (the country also has three territories). Her other appearances include:
June 20, 2013 in Toronto, Ontario for Unique Lives and Experiences.
March 5, 2014 in Vancouver, British Columbia for Board of Trade's Women's Leadership Circle
March 6, 2014 in Calgary, Alberta for an event organized by TINEPUBLIC
March 18, 2014 in Montreal, Quebec for a speech to the Montreal Board of Trade
June 16, 2014 in Edmonton, Alberta for an event promoting her memoir "Hard Choices"
October 6, 2014 for the Ottawa, Ontario for an event organized by Canada 20/20 (Clinton was interviewed on stage by CIBC CEO Victor Dodig at this event)
Clinton's events in Canada have run the gamut, from speeches at high priced dinners to question and answer sessions in theaters. Most have been promoted and organized by TINEPUBLIC, a special events and conference organizer in Canada. CNN's calls to the group went unanswered on Monday.
One thing is consistent for nearly every event Clinton does in Canada: At some point, she is asked about the Keystone XL pipeline.
At her June event in Edmonton, Clinton gave hope to both sides of the debate over the 1,179-mile-long project that would move oil from Canada to refineries in the United States, but declined to comment on whether she would approve the project or not.
"I do believe that both Canada and the United States can become even richer, more prosperous, but also more environmentally sustainable by having a broad engagement over energy and climate and not focusing everything on this one decision," Clinton said.
Obviously, if Clinton runs for president in 2016, she will not be able to take money from Canadians or win a non-existent Canadian primary. But after her visit to Ottawa in October, one headline pointed to the fact that Clinton's visit may be more than that: "Hillary Clinton winning hearts, if not voters, in Ottawa".
