(CNN)The UK's Metropolitan Police says it has identified three men involved in an alleged racist incident in Paris following Chelsea's UEFA Champions League game against Paris Saint Germain Tuesday.
The match, which ended 1-1, has been overshadowed by the release of a video showing what appears to be a group of Chelsea fans preventing a black man from entering a metro train whilst chanting "We're racist, we're racist and that's the way we like it".
The man in the video, which was widely shared on social media, was later identified as Souleymane S., a 33-year-old Parisian on his way home from work.
The Met Police had issued an appeal to identify the three men pictured, but told CNN Sunday that help from the public was no longer needed.
A spokesperson also denied reports that UK police had spoken to the three men in connection with the incident but said they were "supporting the French investigation."
Worldwide headlines
The incident made headlines worldwide, drawing condemnation from Chelsea coach Jose Mourinho, the club's secretive Russian owner Roman Abramovich and even French President Francois Hollande.
But the story took a further twist Saturday as British Transport Police appealed for witnesses to come forward with regard to a separate alleged incident of racist chanting at London's St Pancras train station on Wednesday evening.
St Pancras is the main terminal for Eurostar trains from Paris.
"The racist chanting was reported by a member of the public who was disgusted by the behavior of the men who had traveled on the 18.40 service from Paris Gard du Nord," Superintendent Gill Murray said in a statement.
"The men shouted as they walked through the station having alighted from the train a short time earlier."
Murray also urged any eye witnesses to the incident to come forward.
"If you traveled on the train from Paris or were at the station and have information which can assist our investigation I would urge you to get in touch as a matter of urgency," the statement continued.
Chelsea condemnation
Chelsea FC moved quickly to condemn the first incident, calling the chanting "abhorrent" and something that "has no place in football or society" in a statement released Wednesday.
"I watched the image the next day, I didn't want to watch again, I watched only once," Chelsea coach Mourinho said in a press conference Friday.
Mourinho also invited Souleymane S. to attend the return match against Paris St Germain in London.
"It is enough for me, it is sad enough for me. It is a humiliation for that gentleman, I imagine myself in that same situation, I want to go home after a day of work and a couple of guys they kick me out of my public transport," Mourinho added.
"And I cannot go home. It is a humiliation. It is difficult to believe that this can happen in modern times but the reality is that it happens."
A club spokesperson also confirmed that owner Roman Abramovich was "disgusted" by the incident whilst French President Francois Hollande personally spoke Souleymane S.
"President @fhollande spoke to Souleymane S and offered his support over the odious racial attack he suffered," the Elysee announced via Twitter.
"I didn't know I was filmed"
The Frenchman on the receiving end of the abuse was initially unaware of the media storm as he lost his phone in the incident. He was later shown the footage by the French newspaper Le Parisian for the first time, during an interview.
"I didn't know I was filmed," he said, before calling on the perpetrators to be arrested.
"The fact that I'm talking about it now gives me courage to go to the police and file a complaint. These people, these English fans should be found, punished and locked up. What happened should not go unpunished."
Whilst no arrests have been made Chelsea confirmed Friday that it had suspended five people from attending games at Stamford Bridge.
Mandela video
When contacted by CNN about the latest allegations a Chelsea spokesperson said that the club would not be making an immediate statement before Saturday's English Premier League match against Burnley.
Shortly before the 3pm kick off -- 10am EST -- Chelsea's official Twitter account released a video of several senior players and coach Mourinho reciting a Nelson Mandela quote. Supporters also held several signs, placards and banners denouncing racism as the match got underway.
But those efforts could well now be overshadowed by allegations of a second alleged racist incident.
"It's clear that unfortunately there is still a minority who think it is acceptable to behave in such an abhorrent manner," Superintendent Gill Murray said.
"The men shouted as they walked through the station having alighted from the train a short time. There is more that needs to be done to address the issue once and for all and British Transport Police is actively working with football clubs, the football authorities and other key agencies to tackle this appalling behavior."
Meanwhile, Souleymane S. confirmed that he will not be taking up Chelsea's invitation to attend the second match against Paris St Germain in London.
"I am touched by the invitation from Mr Mourinho," he told Le Parisian Saturday.
"But I'm not in the right frame of mind to go to a stadium at the moment."
Chelsea draw, Man Utd lose
There would be no respite from Chelsea's terrible week after they drew 1-1 with relegation threatened Burnley.
The match began brightly for the home side. Branislav Ivanovic, who scored in Paris on Tuesday night, scored again after good work from Belgium international Eden Hazard.
But the game turned on a controversial sending off.
Chelsea's Serbian international midfielder Nemanja Matic was on the receiving end of a horror tackle from Burnley's Ashley Barnes.
Matic, who somehow avoided serious injury, reacted by pushing Barnes to the floor giving the referee little choice but to show the red card.
Burnley pressed home their advantage and equalized late on through Ben Mee as the match finished 1-1.
Manchester City will hope to make the most of Chelsea's rare slip when they play Newcastle in the Saturday evening kick off.
Manchester United, meanwhile, threw away a one goal lead as Swansea City came from behind to win 2-1. Ander Herrera gave Manchester United the lead before goals from  Ki Sung-yueng and  Bafetimbi Gomis turned the game on its head.
Arsenal leapfrogged Manchester United into third after what appeared at first to be a routine win against fellow London rivals Crystal Palace.
A Santi Cazorla penalty and  Olivier Giroud goal had given the north London club what seemed like an unassailable lead. But Arsenal were left hanging on when Palace scored in the 95th minute and almost grabbed a second. But Arsenal held on and the match ended 2-1.
