A dislocated shoulder suffered in the warm-up wasn't enough to stop Marc Marquez from competing at the British MotoGP but the surging rookie saw his winning streak snapped by Jorge Lorenzo in a thrilling finish.
Marquez overtook Lorenzo during the final lap at Silverstone only for the reigning world champion to slip inside his fellow Spaniard after he uncharacteristically went wide on a turn.
Marquez, who began on pole, thus failed in his bid to claim a fifth consecutive victory.
"As usual Marc pushed in the last laps and overtook me but I didn't want to lose this race," Lorenzo told the BBC. "When he overtook me three corners from the end, I thought it was over.
"But he opened a little space and I said, 'Now or never.' I'm very, very pleased."
The race was similar to last week's Czech Grand Prix, when Honda's Marquez stayed behind Yamaha's Lorenzo before making a late charge.
On Sunday Lorenzo moved ahead of Marquez yards after the start -- they appeared to make contact side by side -- and held the advantage until he was passed with three laps remaining.
Lorenzo quickly regained the lead but it looked as if Marquez would once again come out on top as the racers neared the finish line.
Lorenzo ultimately had the last word.
"Anyway the battle was so nice with Jorge," Marquez told the BBC. "Just the last corner I went a little bit too wide because I went too fast."
Despite the second-place result Marquez increased his lead in the individual standings to 30 points over teammate Dani Pedrosa, who settled for third.
Lorenzo's deficit with six races to go was reduced from 44 points to 39.
Marquez's spot on the grid was in doubt when he crashed in cooler conditions ahead of the race but he was soon patched up and ready.
He said, though, that the injury made things difficult when he changed direction. Lorenzo and Pedrosa have had to contend with their own shoulder injuries this season, helping Marquez.
There was drama, too, in the battle for fourth, with crowd favorite Valentino Rossi passing Alvaro Bautista in the late stages.
Another crowd favorite at Silverstone, home hope Cal Crutchlow, came away disappointed after coming seventh. He started third on the grid.
