(CNN)  -- All but one of the dogs seized in the Michael Vick dog fighting case will be placed with families or put in a "sanctuary," where they will interact with people to overcome their fear and lack of socialization, according to court order filed Monday.
Michael Vick pleaded guilty in August to conspiracy charges related to dog fighting.
One of the 49 seized dogs "has a history biting humans" and will be euthanized, according to a motion filed in Virginia in U.S. District Court.
U.S. Attorney Chuck Rosenberg said the dog -- identified as number 2621 -- "exhibited intense aggression to humans to the point where the evaluation could not safely be completed."
The recommendation came more than a month after the court ordered the dogs evaluated by U.S. Department of Agriculture contractors.
Last month a team of animal behavior experts selected by the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals analyzed the dogs, and then recommended whether they were best suited with families, trained as police dogs, placed in a sanctuary or euthanized.
Federal authorities anticipate recommending a guardian be appointed to oversee the placement of the other dogs.
Vick pleaded guilty in August to federal conspiracy charges related to dog fighting on his property in Surry County, Virginia. He is to be sentenced on the federal charges on December 10.
Last month, a federal judge tightened restrictions on Vick after he tested positive for marijuana use. The suspended Atlanta Falcons player must submit to any method of drug testing required by the pretrial services officer or the supervising officer.
He must participate in substance abuse therapy and mental health counseling if the pretrial services officer or supervising officer orders that.
Vick was also ordered to stay home between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. He is to be electronically monitored during that time.
Vick also faces state charges related to dog fighting. He will be arraigned on state charges on October 3 in a Virginia court. E-mail to a friend
