ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (CNN)  -- Pakistani forces in the last month foiled a planned attack on the parliament building, the intelligence agency and other federal institutions, the country's interior minister told CNN Sunday.
Pakistan's parliament building was one target of a planned attack, an official says.
In the last four weeks, authorities arrested three men with suicide vests who were plotting to carry out the attacks, said Interior Minister Rehman Malik.
Malik would not say exactly when the men were caught.
Pakistan is in the midst of an intense military offensive against Taliban militants. The militants are suspected of launching attacks inside Pakistan and in neighboring Afghanistan from their haven in the mountainous tribal region along the northwestern border.
On Sunday, a suicide bomber in volatile northwestern Pakistan killed at three people and wounded 15 others, police said.
The bombing rocked the Pakistani city of Peshawar, capital of North West Frontier Province.
The incident took place when police approached a man acting suspiciously. The man ran away, police chased him and a gunfight ensued. The man ran out of bullets and blew himself up.
Two women and seven children were among the injured. Remains of the alleged attacker were found, police said. Five houses were destroyed.
The incident follows a car bombing on Saturday in Peshawar that killed two people, including the spokesman for an extremist group called Ansar ul Islam. Two suspects are in custody.
Malik said Sunday the government's anti-Taliban operations will continue during Ramadan, the Muslim holy month considered to be a time of peace.
Militants in North Waziristan, part of the tribal region, have said they will observe a unilateral ceasefire throughout the month.
"There will not be a ceasefire during Ramadan. We are not interested in a ceasefire," Malik said. "They haven't kept their commitment in the past. We will continue targeted actions against the Taliban."
Malik also said the Taliban killed the father-in-law of its leader Baitullah Mehsud and several other relatives, accusing them of leaking information about his whereabouts.
Pakistan and U.S. officials contend Mehsud was killed in an August 5 drone attack in Waziristan at his father-in-law's house.
The Taliban claims Mehsud is alive but ill.
