Bayern Munich's hopes of retaining the German Bundesliga title suffered another blow on Saturday as Louis van Gaal's team were held 1-1 at third-placed Bayer Leverkusen.
The Bavarians now trail leaders Borussia Dortmund by 14 points after 13 rounds, having missed out on the chance to move into the top-five after conceding an equalizer right on halftime.
Germany striker Mario Gomez continued his hot scoring run to put Bayern ahead in the 34th minute from close range after Bastian Schweinsteiger flicked on Thomas Muller's cross.
But Danijel Pranjic brought down Sidney Sam, allowing Arturo Vidal to slot in the resulting spot-kick.
Van Gaal brought on France midfielder Franck Ribery in the 61st minute, but the closest Bayern came to a winner was when Gomez headed Philipp Lahm's injury-time cross over the bar.
"It was bitter to draw, because I could have scored in the last few minutes," Gomez, who has netted eight goals this season and five in the last four games, told AFP.
"Leverkusen were very strong in the second half, so we have to be happy with the point."
Borussia Dortmund came from behind to win 2-1 at Freiburg and maintain the club's seven-point margin at the top.
Freiburg took the lead in the 26th minute with a farcical own-goal as Neven Subotic's attempted clearance hit fellow defender Mats Hummels and bounced into the net after Dortmund keeper Roman Weidenfeller failed to hold onto a free-kick.
The visitors leveled with 15 minutes to play though substitute Robert Lewandowski, whose header from Marcel Schmelzer's cross came within seconds of coming on and followed up his midweek double for Poland.
Three minutes later Lewandowski's compatriot Lukasz Piszczek delivered a low cross which Mensur Mujdza turned into his own net, and Freiburg were denied a late equalizer when Julian Schuster hit the bar.
Early-season pacesetters Mainz stayed second, two points ahead of Leverkusen, winning 3-2 at Borussia Monchengladbach after twice coming from behind.
Marco Reus scored the opener in the 53rd minute and the 21-year-old put Gladbach back ahead on 69 after 20-year-old Andre Schurrle leveled.
Substitute Sami Allagui won it for Mainz, equalizing soon after coming on in the 75th minute with a volley from Christian Fuchs' cross.
Then, with two minutes left, the Tunisian striker ran onto a fine through-ball from Fuchs, lifted the ball over goalkeeper Christofer Heimeroth and headed the ball into the net.
The result means Gladbach could drop to the bottom of the table if Cologne win at Stuttgart on Sunday.
Hannover moved up to fourth place on 22 points with a 3-2 win at home to Hamburg, as striker Mike Hanke headed a late winner.
Hannover led in the 31st minute through Lars Stindl, but Chinese midfielder Heung-Min Son leveled from close range five minutes before halftime and then headed Hamburg ahead nine minutes after the interval.
Christian Schulz equalized five minutes later with a superb individual effort as the Hannover captain flicked the ball up and beat goalkeeper Jaroslav Drobny with an overhead kick.
Son then hit the post before Hanke popped up in the final minute to leave Hamburg in ninth place after a fifth defeat in 13 games.
Hoffenheim moved above Freiburg on goal difference, claiming fifth place on 21 points with a 4-0 rout of Eintracht Frankfurt.
Boris Vukcevic headed the opener in the 31st minute from Sebastian Rudy's corner, then seconds later Vedad Ibisevic had an effort cleared off the line.
But the Bosnia striker killed off the game with goals in the 69th and 70th minutes, the first from Andreas Beck's cross and the second after a surging run by Peniel Mlapa.
The Togo-born teenager wrapped it up in time added on as Frankfurt dropped to seventh after the home side's seven-match unbeaten run came to a crashing halt, leaving the club on 20 points and above Bayern on goal difference.
Promoted Kaiserslautern moved away from the relegation zone with a 3-1 win at Nuremberg, who remained on 18 points behind Hamburg on goal difference.
The visitors led 3-0 after 33 minutes with goals from midfielder Stiven Rivic -- his first for the club -- and fellow Croatian Ivo Ilicevic before their compatriot Srdjan Lakic headed his seventh of the season.
Substitute Robert Mak pulled one back in the 67th minute before Lautern's Athanasios Petsos was sent off for an elbow on Andreas Wolf with 11 minutes left.
Nuremberg captain Wolf hit the bar with a penalty for minutes later as his team's four-match winning run at home came to an end.
Schalke climbed out of the bottom three and up to 14th on 13 points with a morale-boosting 4-0 thrashing of Werder Bremen as the teams warmed up for midweek Champions League action in starkly contrasting fortunes.
Veteran Spanish striker Raul netted a hat-trick after Christoph Metzelder opened the scoring in the 23rd minute with a header that hit the bar and then rebounded into the net off the back of helpless goalkeeper Tim Wiese.
Raul doubled the lead on the stroke of halftime after Wiese could only parry Edu's free-kick and then pounced on Per Mertesacker's clearance 11 minutes after the break.
The 33-year-old then chipped Wiese after a defensive lapse by substitute Daniel Jensen before Bremen had Philipp Bargfrede sent off for two late bookings.
The visitors slumped to a third defeat in four games, and will fall to 12th if Wolfsburg earn a point at St. Pauli on Sunday.
