Cristiano Ronaldo has been named in Portugal's squad for their World Cup play-off against Bosnia-Herzegovina despite objections from La Liga side Real Madrid.
The 24-year-old forward faces a race to be fit for the two games on November 14 and 18 as he has battles back from an ankle injury.
Medical reports confirmed he would be out of action for two more weeks and Real coach Manuel Pellegrini had said it would be "impossible for Ronaldo to play with Portugal" and urged Carlos Queiroz to leave him out of the squad.
Ronaldo has missed the Spanish side's last eight matches after suffering an injury to his right ankle during the Champions League match with Marseille on September 30, and then aggravating it while playing for Portugal in their World Cup qualifier against Hungary on October 10.
The former Manchester United star has since met with Dutch specialist Professor Niek van Dijk in Amsterdam after tests conducted by Madrid last Wednesday revealed that no improvement had been made on Ronaldo's injury since undergoing an MRI scan a week before.
Van Dijk, who operated the winger's right ankle in the summer of 2008, advised Ronaldo to continue his treatment before returning for a fresh evaluation in two weeks' time.
Portugal coach Queiroz revealed, however, that the injury would not stop him from naming Ronaldo in his 23-man squad and the forward admitted that not playing in South Africa would be a bitter pill to swallow.
"We have one more test left. We'll have to qualify in our next two games and I can't possibly imagine a World Cup without Portugal in it," Ronaldo told Real Madrid's Web site.
"We are all united to achieve this goal. I believe we can be optimistic thanks to our will and talent. It would have been easier if our run in the qualifying round had been better, but it wasn't to be."
Valencia full-back Miguel, Wolfsburg centre-back Ricardo Costa and Werder Bremen striker Hugo Almeida returned to the squad.
Portugal take on Bosnia-Herzegovina in Lisbon on Saturday with the return leg in Zenica four days later.
Meanwhile, Liverpool striker Fernando Torres has been left out of Spain's squad for their international friendly with Argentina.
