Napoli missed a great chance to cut the gap on Italian league leaders AC Milan after crashing 2-0 at Chievo Verona as favored teams struggled to impress in Wednesday's games.
Walter Mazzarri's second-placed team could have moved within two points after Lazio held Milan 0-0 on Tuesday, but suffered a sixth defeat in 23 Serie A games.
Striker Davide Moscardelli put Chievo ahead in the 20th minute after controlling the ball well and curling a left-foot shot in off the post, and should have doubled the lead but miskicked with the goal at his mercy.
Defender Gennaro Sardo netted five minutes after halftime after winning the ball and beating three men before firing home to lift his team up to 10th in the table and completed the double over Napoli after the 3-1 away victory in September.
Vote for the best clubs in the world in new CNN poll
Champions Inter Milan, meanwhile, can move above third-placed Lazio on goal difference with victory at bottom club Bari on Thursday, having two games in hand.
Fourth-placed Roma could have gone third on Wednesday but were held 1-1 at home by second-bottom Brescia.
Loan striker Marco Borriello put Claudio Ranieri's team ahead in the 58th minute, but Brazilian forward Eder equalized 11 minutes later.
Juventus coach Luigi Delneri is battling to save his job after the 2-1 defeat at Palermo -- his team's fifth in eight games this year.
Lazio hold leaders Milan in goalless draw
Palermo moved above the Turin team into sixth place as captain Fabrizio Miccoli beat goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon from a tight angle in the seventh minute and midfielder Giulio Migliaccio headed the second on 20.
Claudio Marchisio reduced the deficit nine minutes before halftime after goalkeeper Salvatore Sirigu  failed to deal with a corner, but the 27-time Italian champions could not equalize.
Udinese dropped to seventh after coming from behind to draw 1-1 at home to 14th-placed Bologna.
Captain Marco Di Vaio put the visitors ahead in the 65th minute, but defender Maurizio Domizzi leveled with 13 minutes to play.
Cagliari claimed ninth place with a 1-0 victory at Sampdoria, Fiorentina moved up to 11th with a 1-0 home win over Genoa, Cesena drew 1-1 with fellow relegation battlers Catania and Lecce moved away from the bottom three with a 1-0 win at Parma.
