David Bowie will release another album featuring new material, his long-time producer Tony Visconti has told CNN, in a revelation that will delight the singer's legions of fans.
Bowie last year released "The Next Day," his first new music for a decade, without any warning, electrifying music lovers who assumed the reclusive legend had retired. Critical acclaim for the album was followed by rave reviews for the "Bowie Is" retrospective exhibition at London's V&A Museum, which is now touring the world.
And earlier this month the 67-year-old star announced that a career-spanning greatest hits package due out before Christmas would feature one new song, called "Sue (Or in a Season of Crime)."
Visconti, who produced the "The Next Day" and the forthcoming single, said a further collection of original music would be released. "There's gonna be another album, definitely. I think he talked about, although actually he didn't really say anything. He's announcing, he announced to his fans recently that there's gonna be more music soon. That obviously means another album," the producer said -- although he didn't say when the new music would be released.
Visconti played down any suggestion that Bowie might tour the new material. "I don't think he's gonna busk in the Tube ... on the Underground. As far as a concert is concerned I have no idea.
"He clearly didn't promote 'The Next Day' with a concert and whether he does for the next one I don't know and I couldn't predict that -- it's up to him. It's whatever takes his fancy."
In the meantime a performance by Visconti and drummer Woody Woodmansey, the last surviving member of Bowie's famous Spiders from Mars backing band during his Ziggy Stardust breakthrough years, is as close as fans will get to experiencing Bowie's music live.
The pair will perform Bowie's 1970 album "The Man Who Sold the World" in London, Glasgow and Sheffield, starting on Monday. Heaven 17's Glenn Gregory takes on the task of replacing Bowie's vocals on the songs that helped to launch a unique musical talent.
The announcement effectively quashes fears that "The Next Day" would be Bowie's swansong, and he said he hoped to continue to work with the London-born singer, whose work has spanned almost five decades.
Visconti also rubbished suggestions that Bowie, who had heart surgery in 2004, was unwell. "I saw him in the 10-year period when we didn't work together and he was really happy about taking a break. He was in fine health.
"There were all kinds of rumors flying around and he wasn't upset that people thought he was in ill health ... he said, 'Nah I'm just not inspired and I'll wait till I feel it.'"
