Borussia Dortmund moved a big step closer to a first German Bundesliga title in nine years on Saturday with a historic 3-1 victory over defending champions Bayern Munich at the Allianz Arena.
Jurgen Klopp's team moved 13 points clear of second-placed Bayer Leverkusen, who visit Werder Bremen on Sunday, and 16 ahead of Bayern -- who lost at home to Dortmund for the first time in 20 years.
Louis van Gaal's team dropped to fourth after the home defeat, occupying Germany's final Champions League position for next season with 10 rounds to play.
Paraguay striker Lucas Barrios opened the scoring in the ninth minute with his 11th goal of the season after Bayern midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger lost posesssion to Kevin Grosskreutz, who threaded a perfect pass into the penalty area.
Welcome win for struggling Wolfsburg
Brazilian defender Luis Gustavo equalized seven minutes later with his first goal for Bayern since arriving from Hoffenheim in January, sidefooting in a volley from Franck Ribery's corner.
Dortmund immediately went back in front through a wonderful effort from Turkey midfielder Nuri Sahin, who curled a 20-yard left-foot shot past goalkeeper Thomas Kraft.
Bundesliga top scorer Mario Gomez thought he had leveled again in the 20th minute, but the striker was ruled to be offside.
Former Bayern defender Mats Hummels sealed the Westphalian team's victory with a header from Mario Gotze's corner on the hour mark.
With 15 minutes left, Dortmund's 22-year-old Australian keeper Mitchell Langerak capped a solid Bundesliga debut when he denied Germany international Gomez from close range.
Hanover claimed third place after central defender Christian Schulz's last-gasp header was enough to see off St. Pauli.
The 27-year-old converted from Portuguese winger Sergio Pinto's 87th-minute corner to put Mirko Slomka's team two points ahead of Bayern,.
Mainz remained in fifth place after also needing a late goal to snatch all three points away to Hoffenheim.
Former Austria midfielder Andreas Ivanschitz put the visitors in front before his compatriot David Alaba looked to have rescued a draw for ninth-placed Hoffenheim in the 84th minute.
But with just four minutes left, 30-year-old Colombian midfielder Elkin Soto secured victory for Thomas Tuchel's Mainz with his second league goal of the season.
Germany international Lukas Podolski scored an 88th-minute winner to help Cologne beat SC Freiburg and climb into 11th position, eight points behind their opponents.
Sixth-placed Hamburg could only manage a 1-1 draw away to relegation-threatened Kaiserslautern.
Marco Kurz's Kaiserslautern drew first blood through Adam Hlousek's first-half goal, but Marcell Jansen's leveler for Armin Veh's Hamburg left the home team in 15th position and above the relegation play-off place on goal difference.
Schalke's disappointing Bundesliga season continued with a 1-1 draw at home to Nuremberg.
Nuremberg, currently eighth in the table, took the lead through Jens Hegeler, only for former Real Madrid and Spain striker Raul to equalize after 52 minutes.
