"Dancing With the Stars" has announced its new lineup of competitors, and at least two of them already know how to go for the gold.
On "Good Morning America" on Tuesday, the ABC dancing competition revealed that Olympic champs Meryl Davis and Charlie White, who just won a historic gold medal at the Winter Olympics in figure skating ice dance, are joining "DWTS'" 18th season.
Instead of competing as a team the way they did at the Sochi Olympics, Davis and White are now up against one another. Davis will partner with returning "DWTS" pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy, who left the show in 2012 to pursue other opportunities. White has been set up with pro dancer Sharna Burgess.
Here are the other stars Davis and White will face off against:
Candace Cameron Bure: The former "Full House" actress was rumored to be a potential "star" on this season of "DWTS," and Tuesday's announcement confirmed the gossip. Cameron Bure, who recently released a book called "Balancing It All: My Story of Juggling Priorities and Purpose," will be paired with pro dancer Mark Ballas.
NeNe Leakes: As with Cameron Bure, there was speculation that "Real Housewives of Atlanta's" NeNe Leakes was going to grace ABC's ballroom. Leakes, who's also branched out into acting on shows like "Glee," is partnering with Tony Dovolani.
Danica McKellar: Cameron Bure isn't the only child star on season 18's roster. Former "The Wonder Years" actress Danica McKellar is also going to perform each week, with help from pro partner Valentin Chmerkovskiy. McKellar's also created a career as an author, but she still acts here and there and has appeared on "How I Met Your Mother" and "The Big Bang Theory."
Diana Nyad: We've already seen Diana Nyad's persistence in the water, and we can only imagine how it'll carry her in this season's competition. The 64-year-old became the first person to swim from Cuba to Florida without a protective cage last fall, and will now bring that persistence to the ballroom with pro partner Henry Byalikov.
Drew Carey: Stand-up comic and "The Price Is Right" host Drew Carey is more accustomed to making audiences laugh at his wit than dazzling them with his dance moves, but he'll show what he's got alongside pro partner Cheryl Burke this season.
James Maslow: A member of the band Big Time Rush, James Maslow is one of two pop stars participating in this year's "DWTS." The 23-year-old's pairing off with Peta Murgatroyd.
Cody Simpson: At 17, singer Cody Simpson is the youngest competitor in this season's lineup. The "Pretty Brown Eyes" crooner is going to pair off with new pro dancer Witney Carson.
Amy Purdy: Like some of her competitors, Amy Purdy knows all about the pressure of competition. The double amputee has become a top-ranked snowboarder and Paralympic athlete after losing her legs to meningitis at 19. In this season's "DWTS," she's going to perform with pro partner Derek Hough.
Sean Avery: As a former pro hockey player, Sean Avery is trading in the ice for a dance floor. The athlete/model will dance with pro partner Karina Smirnoff.
Billy Dee Williams: This Hollywood legend is already considering being "DWTS"' secret sauce. At 76, the wide-ranging talent will partner up with pro dancer Emma Slater.
These 12 aren't the only new faces this season. Fox Sports journalist Erin Andrews is also joining the series as its new co-host, replacing Brooke Burke-Charvet as Tom Bergeron's right-hand woman.
The 18th season of "DWTS" will premiere on ABC on March 17.
