Golfers preparing for The Barclays FedEx Cup playoff event at Plainfield Country Club in New Jersey found themselves not only battling the course, but also the effects of a 5.8 magnitude earthquake which struck Virginia on Tuesday.
The quake forced the closure of a nuclear power plant and was felt from as far afield as Georgia and New England, while also causing many PGA Tour players to post their reactions on the social-networking site Twitter.
American world number 15 Bubba Watson used his @bubbawatson account to tweet: "This house we rented just shook!"
Watson's compatriot Jason Dufner, who finished tied for 5th at the recent PGA Championship, also tweeted his shock after feeling the tremors: "Earthquake in Jersey? Or someone trying to give me a shake down??"
Virginia earthquake rattles the East Coast
The 2007 Masters champion Zach Johnson was clearly concerned by the quake, in which no major injuries were reported, and tweeted: "Well. Just went through my first earthquake. Gotta believe it wasn't a big one here in NJ. But, it freaked me out. #kneesbuckled."
Briton Justin Rose has been on the PGA Tour since 2003 and was on the driving range when he felt the quake.
"Was that an earthquake I just felt on the range in New Jersey!!" read his tweet. "Either that or Gary Woodland is thumping out 2 irons on range!!"
Woodland, a 27-year-old one-time winner on the Tour, posted: "Earthquake in jersey. Thought a kid was shaking my chair. Crazy."
The FedEx Cup playoffs are now in their fifth year and serve as a season-ending championship for the Tour, with The Barclays set to get under way on Thursday.
A field of 125 players have qualified for The Barclays based on points accumulated over the course of the year.
Out of those 125, the top 75 will advance to the Deutsche Bank tournament in Boston, before the field is cut to 70 for the BMW Championship in Illinois -- which will begin on September 15.
Finally, 30 players will head to Atlanta for the final tournament, due to start on September 22, where the FedEx Cup champion will be crowned.
