After her crowning in January, Katie Stam, Miss America 2009, went from beauty queen to traveling machine -- within minutes. "The moment they put that crown on my head I started work...literally," she told CNN.
Miss America Katie Stam is constantly on the road.
The Indiana native will spend a year crisscrossing the country promoting her platform of community service. "I change locations every two or three days, and that's exactly how it's going to be all year," Stam says.
From visiting children in hospitals in Pennsylvania to flipping pancakes for charity in California, Miss America lives a life on the road. And with such a hectic schedule, she has picked up a few tips on how to stay sane while traveling.
"The most important tip I could offer anybody who does a lot of traveling is to stay as organized as possible," Stam says. To keep from losing items on the road, Stam keeps everything in the same place in her suitcase, including her crown. "It's really funny, but it helps me kind of keep a clear mind," she explains.
She also unpacks a little as soon as she arrives in her hotel room. "You realize when you get on the road, and that's your life, your hotel becomes your home," Stam says. "And so you really need to feel that you're coming home to your room, to your place where all of your things are."
Stam also stresses the importance of a good night's sleep. "It's absolutely essential to get a full night's rest or at least quality rest," she says. However she also acknowledges the difficulties of sleeping a full eight hours while traveling.
But the ever chipper Miss America has a trick for getting around the wonky work hours: "If you know you only have 10 minutes, you take a quick 10 minute nap."
With airplanes being her primary mode of transportation, the beauty queen also has advice for the frequent flyer on how to stay fresh while on the go. "It's tricky," she says. "A lot of people lose their luggage and stuff. So I always keep my makeup with me, put on a little powder before I go somewhere."
And when you're Miss America, somewhere could be anywhere.
