Chris Brown had something to tell the judge overseeing his probation during a hearing Thursday, but his lawyer cut him off when the singer raised his hand.
"I don't dance, you don't talk," defense attorney Mark Geragos told Brown, who then laughed.
"I would like to see you dance, Mr. Geragos," Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Patricia Schnegg said.
It was a light moment near the end of a routine progress hearing for Brown, the singer who is three years into his five years of probation for the 2009 assault on his then-girlfriend, singer Rihanna.
Chris Brown: Is there such a thing as loving two people?
Brown, who recently revealed he is seeing Rihanna again, has completed his community labor requirements and other probation requirements, according to the latest probation report given the judge.
His lawyer revealed that Brown, 23, will travel to Trinidad, an island close to Rihanna's native Barbados, this month. The probation officer must approve all international travel for Brown.
Brown's probation supervision has been transferred from his hometown of Richmond, Virginia, to Los Angeles in September, the judge revealed.
A positive test for marijuana use by the probation office in Virginia, where the drug is illegal, was not mentioned in court. At the last hearing in September, which Brown did not attend, the judge said she would consider the matter in court this month.
Brown's lawyer explained then that the pot was consumed while he was in California, where he can legally smoke it with his a medical marijuana license.
Brown must return to court on January 17, 2013, for another probation progress report.
Brown was sentenced in August 2009 to serve the probation and to spend more than 1,400 hours in "labor-oriented service" for the felony assault conviction. He was also ordered to complete a 52-week domestic violence program.
Judge Schnegg lifted her "stay away" order, that preventing Brown from near Rihanna, in February 2011.
Students in blackface re-enact Chris Brown beating Rihanna
