Despite a thrilling victory at the British Grand Prix that saw Mark Webber close the gap on world championship leader Fernando Alonso, Red Bull insist they are in no rush to offer him a new contract.
The Australian chalked up his second victory of the season at Silverstone, hunting down the Ferrari of Alonso at the climax of a hugely tactical race.
Webber closed the gap between himself and his Spanish rival to 16 points with the halfway point in the campaign fast approaching.
Though the 35-year-old is emerging as a leading contender to claim his maiden Formula One title and despite speculation linking him with a switch to Ferrari, Red Bull insist they are relaxed about his contract.
Webber pips Alonso to take British GP at Silverstone
"I think that very simply we have a great relationship with Mark," team boss Christian Horner told gathered reporters. "As always with him, things are pretty straightforward.
"This is his seventh season with the team. He has had all of his success in F1 with this team and we would like to see that continue.
"Inevitably there is an awful lot of speculation surrounding Ferrari, but we are only focused on ourselves. We cannot control what other people say or do, and I think that Mark feels comfortable in the team."
The marque also boast defending double world champion Sebastian Vettel amongst their ranks, and Webber has been outspoken in the past about having to play second fiddle to the German.
But Horner confirmed that contract talks with Webber are on the agenda in the not too distant future and praised Vettel for claiming a podium place at Silverstone.
"Mark wants to be in the team next year and therefore, as we have always stated, during the summer we will sit down and talk about the future," he said.
"And that period of time is obviously coming up pretty close now, so over the next few weeks we will be talking about 2013. Mark has given me every indication that he is very happy here, and you can see that in his driving.
"He is driving very well this year, he has won two big races now -- the Monaco Grand Prix and the British Grand Prix, and I think his drive at Silverstone was excellent.
Latest Formula One standings
"It was great for him to win for the team at our local race, and obviously coming from just up the road as well, and to have Sebastian up there on the podium after a difficult first lap again was a double bonus."
Meanwhile, Ferrari team boss Stefano Domenicali thinks the constructors' title will be as closely fought as the drivers' championship this year.
Red Bull have dominated in each of the last two years and though they are out in front again this season, the gap to Ferrari is only 64 points.
Domenicali said: "If we look at the situation of Silverstone, with the first four cars, it means we have made a step in the right direction from the performance point of view. But it is a very open championship," he said.
"I don't believe honestly that the others will stay behind. I am sure McLaren will fight to come back, and the others are very close.
"I was impressed by the pace of Lotus. If you look at (Romain) Grosjean, if you look at the first lap he pitted and then he finished sixth. So the field is very tight."
