Chelsea has rewarded Roberto di Matteo for guiding the English club to its first European Champions League triumph by appointing him as manager on a permanent basis.
The Italian, who also guided the London team to English FA Cup glory, has been handed a two-year contract.
The former Chelsea midfielder took temporary charge of the team following the sacking of Andre Villas-Boas in March, having previously served as the Portuguese's assistant.
"Chelsea football club is delighted to announce that Roberto Di Matteo has been appointed manager and first-team coach on a permanent basis," the four-time English champion's website reported Wednesday.
Di Matteo, who played for Chelsea between 1996 and 2002, oversaw the team's dramatic penalty shootout win in European club football's biggest match in May.
"I'm obviously delighted to have been appointed as manager and first-team coach," the former West Bromwich Albion and MK Dons manager said.
"We all achieved incredible success last season that made history for this great club. Our aim is to continue building on that and I'm already planning and looking forward to the squad's return for preseason."
Chelsea chief executive Ron Gourlay said he was confident the former Italy international could continue his early success.
"Roberto's quality was clear for all to see when he galvanized the squad last season and helped the club make history, and the owner and board are very pleased he will be continuing his good work," said Gourlay.
"We will be working closely with Roberto in the weeks ahead, some exciting signings have already been made and Roberto has had input into those.
"Although he has set the bar very high in the short time he has been in charge, we know that Roberto is the right man to lead Chelsea onto further success."
Chelsea's Russian owner Roman Abramovich has already bankrolled two big-money signings in recent months, in a bid to improve on a sixth-place Premier League finish last season -- the club's worst position during his eight-year reign.
Germany playmaker Marko Marin has been signed from Bundesliga team Werder Bremen, while highly-rated Belgium attacker Eden Hazard has been recruited from Lille in France.
Meanwhile, the Premier League has sold its UK live television rights for 2013-16 for £3.018 billion ($4.7 billion) to current broadcaster Sky and newcomer BT.
The deal is £1.254 billion ($1.95 billion) higher than the present one shared by Sky and ESPN, which took over the packages held by financially troubled Setanta Sports in 2009 but missed out completely this time.
Sky has five of the seven packages, for 116 matches in total, while multinational telecoms company BT will show 38 games live.
