Just hours after the island took a beating from Hurricane Igor, blue skies returned to Bermuda Monday as the storm moved out into the Atlantic and toward Newfoundland, Canada.
"It's a different world, so to speak," CNN meteorologist Reynolds Wolf said, reporting from Bermuda.
The island was cleaning up and drying out after Igor's visit, but there were no reports of serious damage, injuries or deaths resulting from the Category 1 hurricane.
"Compared to Fabian, this is a good outcome," said Frank Stocek, property manager at the Elbow Beach resort. Hurricane Fabian caused extensive damage on Bermuda when it struck in 2003.
As of 8 p.m. ET, Igor was about 650 miles (1,045 kilometers) southwest of Cape Race, Newfoundland, according to the National Hurricane Center. It was moving northeast, away from Bermuda, at about 29 mph (46 kph).
Igor was barely a hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of 75 mph (120 kph). Some strengthening is possible, the hurricane center said. Igor is expected to become an intense extratropical cyclone in a day or so, it added.
A tropical storm warning for Bermuda was discontinued Monday afternoon. Winds were forecast to diminish as Igor pulled away from the island.
The storm is projected to stay off the U.S. coast but is forecast to near the tip of Newfoundland, Canada, as early as Tuesday. A tropical storm warning was issued for the region. France also issued a tropical storm warning for its area islands, Saint Pierre and Miquelon.
The center of Igor reached its closest point to Bermuda -- about 40 miles (65 kilometers) west of the island -- late Sunday night. As it neared Bermuda, its eyewall collapsed, weakening it slightly, Wolf said.
Winds gusted to 93 mph (149 kph) on the tiny Atlantic island as Igor raged. Because Bermuda -- which is actually a collection of islands -- is so small, "they don't get direct hits very often," said CNN meteorologist Rob Marciano, "and they got hit pretty hard."
As day dawned, however, many on Bermuda felt they had dodged a bullet, despite widespread power outages -- at one point, it was estimated that two-thirds of the island's 67,000 residents were without electricity -- some flooding in low-lying areas, downed trees and branches and closed roads. Some lacking power may not have it restored for weeks, Wolf said.
The storm's northeast quadrant, typically where the highest winds and rain are experienced, took aim at the southern part of the island, where several resorts are located.
"On the forecast track, Igor will continue moving away from Bermuda and pass offshore of the southeastern tip of Newfoundland on Tuesday," forecasters at the hurricane center said.
Igor is a large storm, with hurricane-force winds extending up to 85 miles (140 kilometers) from the center and tropical storm-force winds extending outward up to 380 miles (610 kilometers) outward.
A tropical storm warning has been issued for the coast of Newfoundland from Stone's Cove to Charlottetown, forecasters said. The warning, in this case, means that tropical storm conditions are possible within the area within 24 hours.
Large swells are expected to continue affecting the East Coast of the United States through Tuesday and could cause "life-threatening surf and rip currents," the hurricane center said. Swells associated with Igor are expected to subside over the next couple of days in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Hispaniola and portions of the Bahamas.
Out in the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Julia had lost its tropical characteristics by mid-morning Monday, according to the National Hurricane Center's last advisory issued on the storm. As of 11 a.m. ET, the remnants of Julia were located about 1,100 miles (1,770 kilometers) west of the Azores. Its maximum sustained winds were at 45 mph (75 kph), and it was moving east at about 8 mph (13 kph). The storm was forecast to dissipate over the next day or two.
