Zlatan Ibrahimovic was again on target as AC Milan returned to the top of Italy's Serie A with a 2-0 victory at Cagliari on Tuesday.
Francesco Pisano's early own-goal and a second-half strike from the in-form Ibrahimovic put the defending champions one point clear of unbeaten Juventus, who visit third-placed Udinese on Wednesday.
Massimiliano Allegri's team took the lead in the fourth minute when Pisano deflected Antonio Nocerino's effort into the net after Ibrahimovic sent Robinho free down the right.
Ibrahimovic and Nocerino both scored in Saturday's win over Siena which briefly put Milan above Juve, and the Sweden striker continued his rich scoring run in the 60th minute.
He netted a fifth penalty in six matches at the weekend, but this time was on target from open play after combining again with Brazil forward Robinho.
Mancini rules out Milan's hopes of Tevez loan deal
Ibrahimovic scored for the 11th time in the league this season to join Atalanta's German Denis at the top of the standings.
The defeat left Cagliari in 13th place, one of three clubs on 18 points.
Fiorentina claimed 12th on goal difference after a 0-0 draw at Siena, who moved up to 16th and three points above the relegation zone.
In England, Bolton climbed off the bottom of the Premier League with a 2-1 win at Lancashire rivals Blackburn, as the two teams swapped places.
First-half goals from Mark Davies and Nigel Reo-Coker put the visitors in control, and a 67th-minute effort from Yakubu could not prevent a third successive defeat for Rovers -- whose manager Steve Kean is in increasing danger of being sacked by the club's Indian owners.
Norwich retained ninth place despite twice losing the lead in a 2-2 draw at struggling Wolverhampton.
Ronald Zubar's 82nd-minute header earned Wolves a point which lifted the club into 16th above Sunderland, who visit Queens Park Rangers on Wednesday.
In Spain, a second-string Real Madrid team moved into the last 16 of the Copa del Rey with a 5-1 victory over third division Ponferradina.
The cup holders sealed a 7-1 aggregate win as Jose Callejon added two more goals to his strike in the away leg.
Espanyol beat second division Celta Vigo 4-2 after a 0-0 draw in last week's first leg, while Mallorca defeated fellow La Liga side Sporting Gijon 2-0 to go through 2-1 overall.
Sevilla, the 2010 cup winners, beat lower-league San Roque 2-1 to progress 3-1 on aggregate.
Club World Cup champions Barcelona will host third division Hospitalet on Thursday, holding a 1-0 lead.
In Germany, Bundesliga champions Borussia Dortmund battled into the quarterfinals of the domestic cup competition after beating Fortuna Dusseldorf 5-4 in a penalty shootout.
Dortmund held their division two opponents to 0-0 after extra-time despite having Patrick Owomoyela sent off in the 34th minute for a second booking.
League leaders Bayern Munich went through to the last eight with a 2-1 win at Bochum, coming from behind to equalize in the 52nd minute through Toni Kroos before Arjen Robben netted a late penalty.
Hoffenheim beat Augsburg 2-1 in a top-flight clash, while Nuremberg lost 1-0 at home to second division Greuther Furth.
