Real Madrid forward Cristiano Ronaldo equaled the Spanish league scoring record with two more goals in Sunday's 3-1 victory at Villarreal.
The Portugal captain took his tally in La Liga to 38 ahead of next weekend's final match at home to relegated Almeria, with Real's title hopes having ended in midweek.
His closest rival is Lionel Messi on 31, but the world player of the year was rested for Barcelona's 0-0 draw against lowly Deportivo La Coruna ahead of the May 28 Champions League final against Manchester United.
Barca, who clinched the title on Wednesday with two matches to play, were presented the La Liga trophy in front of their home fans after a low-key match.
Barcelona crowned Spanish champions after Levante draw
Ronaldo is now level with the 1951 effort of Athletic Bilbao's Telmo Zarra, which was matched by Real's Hugo Sanchez in 1990, after scoring nine times in the last three matches.
Both against Villarreal came from free-kicks, with the first soon after Marcelo's 17th-minute opener and the second in time added on at the end of the match.
It took him to 51 goals in all competitions this season, one behind Messi's Spanish record, while Real have now netted 94 times to Barca's 92 in La Liga.
Fourth-placed Villarreal, who reduced the deficit through Ruben Cani six minutes after halftime, will have to go through the Champions League qualifying round next season.
Valencia clinched third place for the second time in a row with a 0-0 draw against local rivals Levante to secure a group-stage place in Europe's top tournament.
Athletic Bilbao, Atletico Madrid and Sevilla will battle for the two Europa League places next weekend, with all three clubs on 55 points.
Bilbao were held 1-1 at home by 10-man Malaga, while Sevilla beat Real Sociedad 3-1 and Atletico won 2-1 against relegated Hercules in manager Quique Sanchez Flores' final home game in charge of the 2010 Europa League champions.
Six clubs will battle to avoid filling the final relegation spot next week, with Zaragoza on 42 points, Deportivo and Getafe on 43 and Mallorca, Sociedad and Osasuna on 44.
Robinho double helps champions Milan rebound
In Italy, deposed champions Inter Milan secured second place with a round to play after a 1-1 draw with Napoli that ensured the home team will finish third and enter the Champions League draw at the group stage.
Cameroon striker Samuel Eto'o put Inter ahead with his 21st league goal this season, while Colombian defender Juan Camilo Zuniga equalized on halftime.
The battle for a berth in the competition's qualifying draw will go to the final round after Udinese won 2-0 at Chievo to reclaim fourth place from Lazio.
Sixth-placed Roma's Champions League hopes ended with a 2-1 defeat at Catania, leaving the side three points behind capital rivals Lazio.
Seventh-placed Juventus lost 1-0 at Parma, so must beat Napoli next weekend and hope Roma lose to Sampdoria in order to qualify for the Europa League.
Sampdoria dropped out of the top flight just a season after qualifying for the Champions League following a 2-1 defeat at home to Palermo.
The club finished fourth in 2009-10 but followed Brescia and Bari in going down to Serie A. Lecce survived after a 2-0 win at Bari put the club five points clear of Sampdoria.
