Dr. Paul Nassif couldn't tell if his friend Charlie Sheen was drunk last Thursday when the actor made the phone call that eventually led to a hospital visit and the latest controversy about Sheen's rehab.
"I just was waking up, I was still very, very groggy and the phone rang and it was Charlie Sheen's residence," Nassif told CNN Tuesday. "I spoke to Charlie for a few minutes and he said he was in a lot of pain, and remember I'm Charlie's friend. I'm not his doctor. I'm a facial plastic surgeon.
"When I spoke to Charlie it sounded like he was in a lot of pain, severe pain, so when someone's in severe pain you know it's not like I'm going to walk out my door and go see him. Plus I don't even live that close next to him," Nassif said. "When I usually hear something like that -- you don't know what's going on -- so the thing you always are going to do is dial 911.
"I instructed the person I was speaking with to call 911 and then I also followed up to make sure that it was performed and kind of communicated somewhat to the paramedics," Nassif said.
Porn actress Kacey Jordan has told media outlets that a two-day party preceded Sheen's collapse in his Los Angeles home. Sheen has since entered rehab, and his hit sitcom "Two and a Half Men" has suspended production.
Nassif couldn't determine whether Sheen was drunk or high.
"I couldn't tell if he was inebriated. I only spoke to him for a very brief moment because as soon as I heard him say he's in a lot of pain I wanted to get on the phone with the assistant so they can just immediately dial 911," Nassif said.
Sheen and now ex-wife Brooke Mueller were married in Nassif's Beverly Hills home, Nassif said. Nassif's wife, Adrienne Maloof-Nassif, appears on "Real Housewives of Beverly Hills."
"They wanted to get married, and a mutual friend introduced all of us, and they said, 'Let's get married, can we get married at your house?' and that's how we met and soon after that we became very good friends," Nassif said.
Nassif drove Sheen home from the hospital, but he declined to provide details of their conversation.
"There were things he said I don't feel comfortable" disclosing, Nassif said.
At another point in the interview, Nassif added: "Obviously we all want Charlie to keep his sobriety. No one can push him into it."
Sheen's manager has said the actor is undergoing rehab at home, not in a residential facility.
"Where you do it doesn't matter if you have someone with you that's helping you," Nassif said. "That would be nice to be at your own environment as long as you have the right structure."
