You may not have noticed it because of that helmet he had to wear while free-falling into the history books, but Felix Baumgartner is kind of hot.
Yes, yes, we know that sounds incredibly superficial, but these things are important when considering who should be cast to play Baumgartner in a movie about his record-breaking leap. Because honestly, you know someone, somewhere, is already trying to figure out how to turn it into a film.
And we want to offer an assist. Here are just a few of the Hollywood hunks who come to mind:
David Beckham - You can kind of see it, right? Rugged jaw line, stubble, the hard athletic body from hours of training for a death-defying feat. And a vocal coach could be brought in to help Beckham learn an Austrian accent.
Channing Tatum - Four words for you: "Magic Mike in space."
Need we say more? And in the interest of creative license, the "Step It Up" star could land on his feet after the jump and break into a celebratory dance.
Alex Pettyfer - Speaking of "Magic Mike," Tatum's co-star in that film could also make an interesting daredevil. And in an interview he reportedly said he is a "fan of fear" -- and Baumgartner's feat was definitely a scary one.
Michael Pitt - There was a huge outcry when Pitt's character was killed off in HBO's "Boardwalk Empire" so we know he has a fan base. He's also a pretty intense actor and could probably pull this one off with ease.
Jonathan Rhys Meyers - The actor has been missed since his star turn in the now ended Showtime series "The Tudors." He has range, having convincingly portrayed everyone from King Henry VIII to the king of rock and roll, Elvis, so why not?
Sam Rockwell - He plays a lunatic in "Seven Psychopaths" and we'd like to see him get a break from often playing the heavy. He's had smaller roles in films like "The Green Mile" and "Iron Man 2," and a lead would be nice.
Ryan Reynolds - Because he is Ryan Reynolds, and any opportunity to have more of Ryan Reynolds we will take.
Who would you throw into the mix as a possible Baumgartner? Sound off below.
