It was a routine display, a predictable result perhaps, but in beating Augsburg 3-0 on Saturday Bayern Munich created history registering a 37th consecutive Bundesliga game without defeat.
Since Bayer Leverkusen beat Bayern 2-1 on October 28th last year, the Bavarian side have notched up an incredible 31 league wins and six draws.
"The record is unbelievable. It's not easy to go 37 games without defeat. Congratulations to the club," said coach Pep Guardiola, who took over from Jupp Heynckes in June.
"I have noticed that every game is a lesson for me in understanding my team," he added.
The record, which surpasses the mark set by Hamburg between January 1982 to January 1983, was achieved with the minimum of fuss at the Allianz Arena.
Jerome Boateng opened the scoring in the fourth minute before Franck Ribery added a second three minutes before halftime.
A Thomas Muller penalty in the 90th minute sealed victory for Bayern who also equaled Barcelona's Champions League record (set in 2002/03) of nine consecutive wins with a 1-0 at Viktoria Pilsen in midweek.
Domestic joy was heightened by the knowledge that their lead at the top of the table had been extended to four points as title rivals Borussia Dortmund completed a miserable week at home and in Europe.
Jurgen Klopp's men followed a 1-0 Champions League defeat to English league leaders Arsenal with a 2-1 loss at Wolfsburg.
German international Marco Reus put Dortmund ahead with a well-struck free kick just before the break, but Wolfsburg hit back with two second half goals from Ricardo Rodriguez and Croatia striker Ivica Olic to register a fourth straight victory which moves them up to fifth in the table.
"We gave away too many free-kicks, which allowed the opposition some practice in taking them," Jurgen Klopp said.
To compound Dortmund's trouble, center-back Neven Subotic suffered suspected ligament damage to his knee.
Elsewhere, Bayer Leverkusen's resounding 5-3 win against Hamburg sees them draw level on 28 points with Dortmund while Hertha Berlin bounced back after two straight league defeats with a 3-2 win at Hoffenheim.
The victory lifts Hertha to seventh, one place below Schalke who beat Werder Bremen 3-1. Fourth-placed Borussia Monchengladbach beat bottom side Nurnberg 3-1.
Mourinho's lucky escape
Meanwhile in the English Premier League, Chelsea were held to a 2-2 draw against West Bromwich Albion.
Only an injury time penalty by Belgian striker Eden Hazard preserved Jose Mourinho's record of never having lost a league match at Stamford Bridge.
Samuel Eto gave the hosts the lead in the 45th minute but second-half strikes from Shane Long and Stephane Sessegnon looked to have secured a famous victory for the visitors only for the Blues to equalize at the death.
The result sees Chelsea drop to fourth while West Brom are up to ninth.
Southampton's amazing run of form continued in emphatic style with 4-1 win over Hull. The Saints, whose last league defeat was in August, move up to third.
Luis Suarez scored a second-half brace as Liverpool thrashed Fulham 4-0 at Anfield. The win sees the Reds move to within two points of leaders Arsenal who travel to Manchester United on Sunday.
In Saturday's other fixtures, Aston Villa beat Cardiff 2-0, Norwich City beat West Ham United 3-1 and bottom-of-the-table Crystal Palace drew 0-0 with Everton.
