(OPRAH.com) -- Susan: Kathryn walks through the door of the restaurant, just like the first time we met. Her arms akimbo, reeling off her story. Why she's late. Why she's angry at someone I don't know. What her son has to write for English class. Why her other son's social studies teacher doesn't understand him.
Her husband. Her cousin. Her brother. Her audition. Her life writ large. In the telling. As large as her holiday dinners, her novel, her unfinished lists, her outrage at the world's ills, her embrace, her laugh at her own expense.
She's invited me to lunch to celebrate my Guggenheim fellowship, but 15 minutes in she has not stopped talking. Finally, I must speak.
"Who would you be without your narrative?" I wonder. It stops her cold.
Possessed, she gets up without a word. Walks out of the restaurant, comes back in, and starts over. This time she raises her coffee cup.
"To you!" she says. And turns it over -- the morning, the reason we're here, the dialogue. We change direction and revise.
Why are we friends? This is why.
Oprah.com: Are you a good (or bad) friend?
Kathryn: I pretty much never fail to remind my friend Suz that we first met in our late 20s when I auditioned for a play of hers in which she made the fatal decision not to cast me.
Here is who I remember we were at the beginning. Cute. Very cute girls. No doubts on her part that she was the real deal, an honest-to-God, daring, one-of-a-kind playwright. No doubts on mine that I was a born thespian with unique comedic gifts.
No doubts that everything was indeed going to come up roses, because our parents told us so. I have no other friend who was so equally adored by her parents and no other friend who grasps so completely how shocked I still am that the world did not stop spinning to welcome me to it.
Oprah.com: Oprah and Gayle, uncensored
Susan: Do you know you never looked at my scar? After my mastectomy, I asked you if you wanted to see it and you said you weren't ready.
Kathryn: I had no memory of this moment and was instantly ashamed, even 24 years later, at the thought that my friend could have survived this loss and that I was too frightened to even acknowledge it.
Until I realized that what I knew all those years ago was that I couldn't imagine my life without her in it, and looking at that scar would have brought me too close to the possibility that I might have lost her at our very beginning.
Kathryn: What's worse than not looking at your scar is the fight we had on the corner.
Susan: Well, not a fight.
Kathryn: A large disagreeing. A taking to task.
Susan: Okay. It felt like a fight.
Kathryn: I wanted you to move on. Stop being stuck in regret or sorrow. I didn't want you to waste time on what people didn't give you or how people weren't honoring you appropriately.
Susan: That's you! You are talking about yourself. You can't tolerate my --
Kathryn: Because I completely identify.
Susan: I was going to say -- darkness. You can't tolerate my pain and worry over my son's pain and worry. You don't stop and let the other person's world take space. You're too wrapped up in your own circumstance. You who are totally uncontrollable in your panic at any disruption of your own family. That's what the fight was about for me.
Kathryn: I want us to live like we have two minutes left.
Susan: Okay. But then you'll have to stop talking.
Oprah.com: 5 friends every woman should have
Kathryn: I don't think I've ever spent time with you without bursting out in great guffaws. Even after sobbing.
Susan: That makes me want to cry.
Kathryn: You have this burst laughter, this relish of laughter. I love hearing you laugh. I love making you laugh. I love laughing with you. I can count on you for laughter.
Susan: We help each other get over ourselves.
Kathryn: Here are some boldfaced differences in who we are. Suz is delicate. She is a tiny thing and I can practically circle her wrist twice with my comparatively enormous hand. She is delicate inside and out, and I am a Russian peasant.
She has one breast. I have two (knock knock). She was married to her high school sweetheart for ten years, had intense love affairs, and has been with Lida for ten. I have been married (so far) to the same husband for 26 years. She has never been fat.
Susan: Once, when I was 11.
Oprah.com: Julie Powell meets the Wine Divas
Kathryn: Can you remember the longest period that we haven't talked to each other?
Susan: A week?
Kathryn: If a week's gone by, I start to think, "Are we in one of those places where you need to tell me something?"
Susan: And I think, "What don't you want to tell me?"
Oprah.com: How to cope with the loss of a best friend
Susan and Kathryn: Sometimes it's not wanting to be so intimately observed. To be caught. Because we're onto each other.
As many times as we vow there's nothing that could rend us asunder, still the anxious space between when something bothers us and when we express it to each other is enormous and scary.
We both have permission to be anything, to say anything. We know each other's fragile places. And are tender with them.
Kathryn: You're one of the few friends, Suz, whom I walk arm in arm with. We don't do it always, but sometimes. And I think the only other woman I've done that with is my mom.
Susan: So what's the future of us?
Kathryn: That you finish three or maybe five more fabulous plays. That I get to be in each and every one of them. That we dance at our grandchildren's weddings.
That we wake up joyful and actually sleep through part of the night. And that we get to become the two older women we can't believe we'll be.
Susan: Walking arm in arm to the movies in the middle of the afternoon. Continuing the conversation.
Oprah.com: Take the friendship test
Excerpt by Susan Miller and Kathryn Grody from the May 2011 issue O, The Oprah Magazine
Subscribe to O, The Oprah Magazine for up to 75% off the newsstand price. That's like getting 18 issues FREE. 

Subscribe now!
TM & © 2010 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
