A late goal by Robert Lewandowski earned Borussia Dortmund a precious 2-1 win against Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium in the Champions League Group F match on Tuesday night.
The Polish striker's assured 82nd minute strike gave last year's beaten finalists a vital win, bringing them level on six points with both Arsenal and Napoli who also won on Tuesday beating Marseille 2-1.
Dortmund started brightly and took the lead in the 16th minute when Marco Reus nicked the ball off Aaron Ramsey on the edge of the Arsenal penalty area before feeding the ball to Henrikh Mkhitaryan. The Armenian midfielder made no mistake with his shot firing past a helpless Wojciech Szczęsny.
Arsenal search for an equalizer was in vain until Tomas Rosicky went close in the 38th minute -- his 18-yard shot being cleared off the line. The excitement fired the home side into life and two minutes later Olivier Giroud had Arsene Wenger's men on level terms.
Bacary Sagna's teasing cross from the right saw Dortmund keeper Roman Weidenfeller fumble the ball which then fell kindly for Giroud who slammed home unopposed from close range.
The team's remained deadlocked in the second half until Lewandowski expertly guided Kevin GrossKreutz cross past Szczęsny to snatch all three points for the Bundesliga side.
Read more: Libya's footballers in the firing line
Napoli's trip to the Stade Velodrome was less dramatic. Goals from Jose Callejon and Duvan Zapata saw Rafa Benitez take control of the match. Andre Ayew's scored a late goal for the home side but it was too little too late. Marseille remain pointless at the bottom of the table.
In Group E, Chelsea moved top on goal difference after a convincing 3-0 win over Schalke. Fernando Torres opened the scoring with a header in the fifth minute before bagging a second in the 69th minute. Eden Hazard's 87th minute strike rounded off a satisfactory evening for Jose Mourinho.
Steaua Bucharest picked up their first Group E point thanks to a late equalizer from Leandro Tatu after Marcelo Diaz had put Basel ahead in the 48th minute.
Atletico Madrid stay top of Group G after a comfortable 3-0 win against FK Austria Wien. First half goals from Raul Garcia and Diego Costa saw the away side assume control of the tie before Costa added another in the 53rd minute.
With three wins from three, Atletico look odds on to win the group. Zenit St Petersburg are currently lying second with four points after beating Porto 1-0.
Barcelona remain top of Group H after a 1-1 draw against Milan at the San Siro.
Robinho put the home side in front in the ninth minute following a neat one-two with Kaka before Lionel Messi leveled things up in the 23rd minute with a low shot past Milan keeper Marco Amelia.
Barcelona now have seven points to Milan's five while Celtic now have three points after recording a 2-1 win over Ajax at Celtic Park.
A penalty from James Forrest got the Celtic faithful rocking at the end of the first half before Beram Kayal doubled the lead nine minutes into the second half. Lasse Schone scored a late consolation goal for the Dutch champions but the defeat sends them to the bottom of the group with just one point from three games.
Wednesday Group A matches sees Manchester United take on Real Sociedad and Bayer Leverkusen play Shakhtar Donetsk while Real Madrid take on Juventus and Galatasaray host FC Copenhagen in Group B.
In Group C, Paris Saint Germain travel to Anderlecht and Benfica take on Olympiakos.
Manchester City play CSKA Moscow and Bayern Munich face Viktoria Plzen in Group D.
