Listen to how loud tea party forces are this week and it will remind you of a valuable lesson: for some conservatives, the 2014 wins are likely to translate into more disappointment -- not more power.
The big issue -- and the last big act of the current Congress -- is whether lawmakers will pass a spending bill that keeps the government running well into 2015. Some tea party activists insist it is their duty to deny President Obama any funding that would help him implement what they call amnesty -- meaning the administration's recent executive actions on illegal immigration.
Related: Obama tells the undocumented to "come out of the shadows"
Transcript: President Obama's immigration address
In Monday's conservative Red State morning briefing, Item No. 1 is a complaint against the GOP leadership:
"They preemptively surrendered and now want to both nibble at Obamacare instead of end it and they want to fund the President's immigration plan. House Republicans, this week, are set to fund Barack Obama's amnesty plan with the help of House Democrats. If you want to stop amnesty, you must flood the offices of members of congress with phone calls. There's no other way. They need to hear from you and that you demand they keep their promises."
It's the kind of talk that in the past has put Speaker Boehner on thin ice -- and remember we did have a brief government shutdown not all that long ago because he could not corral -- and control -- the tea party forces.
Might that happen again now?
The Republican leadership says "no" -- and emphatically so. House Speaker John Boehner and Senate GOP leader Mitch McConnell -- who will be majority leader in a month -- say Republicans cannot shut down the government as a way of making policy points. And they say they begin the week confident they have the votes to prove the tea party forces may be loud, but cant win.
Related: GOP aims to avoid shutdown
There will be more Republicans in both the House and Senate come January.
So why are tea party forces so frantic about the votes this week? Remember, the GOP establishment candidates won most of the contested Republican primaries this year, part of what McConnell openly called his bid to "crush" the tea party.
That's why more Republicans in Washington, D.C. next year will not translate into more tea party votes in the big internal GOP battles. To the contrary.
So while it would be wrong to consider this week the tea party's last stand -- its forces promise to regroup and recover -- the last big act of the old Congress is going to be very important in setting the tone for the new Congress.
The spending votes will establish just how strong Boehner and McConnell are in dealing with the internal GOP rifts that have been so messy in recent years.
Related: How Mitch McConnell crushed the tea party
Related: Sen. Ted Cruz causes headaches for GOP leaders - again
