Brazilian striker Brandao has been handed a one-month jail sentence for headbutting an opposing player, with the severity of his punishment linked to the footballer's role model status, according to one of the lawyers involved in the case.
The judicial punishment follows a six-month sporting ban given to Brandao, who plays for French Ligue 1 side Bastia, following the August incident when he assaulted Paris Saint-Germain midfielder Thiago Motta.
"This is an extremely severe sentence compared to the criminal record of my client," Brandao's lawyer Olivier Martin told CNN affiliate BFMTV after the three-judge panel's ruling, which also included a $25,000 fine.
"It's all the more severe because of the motivation that was raised by the President of the Court to justify the sentence," added Martin. "He referred to the violence in football stadiums."
Brandao headbutted the Italy international in the tunnel of PSG' s Parc des Princes stadium following the match which the Parisian club won 2-0.
The 34-year-old can be seen on CCTV waiting around before striking Motta and then running off out of shot with Brazilian-born Motta following in hot pursuit.
Motta's lawyer Francois Klein said "the court wanted to mark the occasion," as Ligue 1 players were considered role models to many people.
"Because these images are widely circulated; it gives the youth an absolutely regrettable idea," said Klein.
"It's well known that in many stadiums, suburban or elsewhere, there are similar events that may occur, and it is necessary that professional players lead by example." Neither of the two players involved were present at the Paris court for the trial.
The court was particularly annoyed by the absence of Brandao, who was having surgery in a Saint Etienne hospital Thursday.
Brandao is expected to "benefit from a sentence adjustment," meaning he would serve his punishment through a community service rather than in jail.
Against PSG, Brandao was playing in only his second match for the Corsica-based club after joining from Saint Etienne in the summer. He was initially suspended for four weeks following the attack which broke Motta's nose.
Last season, he was banned for three matches for elbowing another PSG player, Yohan Cabaye, in the head.
"Brandao will be available to play again on Feb. 22, 2015," the French league's disciplinary committee said in a statement following his September punishment, meaning the striker will miss 24 league matches in total.
