Aruban authorities questioned Joran van der Sloot in the Netherlands about the disappearance of Natalee Holloway, the Aruban prosecutor's office said Friday.
Joran van der Sloot awaits transfer from the Netherlands to Aruba in November. He later was released.
It happened less than a week after a Dutch television program aired video footage showing the young man saying he was with the missing Alabama teenager when she died.
During the two-hour interview with Aruban investigators, van der Sloot again denied any role in Holloway's vanishing, the prosecutor's office said in a written statement.
Van der Sloot said that he was under the influence of marijuana when he was secretly videotaped saying that he was with Holloway when she died, and that he arranged for a friend to dump her body in the ocean, the statement said.
On the video, which aired Sunday, van der Sloot also says that he wasn't sure Holloway was dead before a friend disposed of her body.
Patrick van der Eem, a man who feigned friendliness toward van der Sloot, recorded the conversations on hidden cameras installed in the Range Rover he was driving, according to the report that aired Sunday.  Watch how the video has renewed interest in the case »
Shortly after the video was made public, an investigative judge said that enough evidence exists to reopen the inquiry against the Dutch college student, but denied a prosecution's request that van der Sloot be detained.
Hans Mos, the Aruban prosecutor, is appealing that decision, and a three-judge panel will rule on it "after this weekend," Mos said.  Watch Holloway's father say van der Sloot should 'come clean' »
Earlier this week, Dutch authorities executed several search warrants at van der Sloot's current and former residences, a source close to the investigation said. They took a hard drive and a laptop computer, the source said.
Van der Sloot's attorney, Joe Tacopina, told CNN that the video did not show a "confession" and said that van der Sloot is innocent.
The college student is willing to answer "any questions" investigators ask, Tacopina said.
Earlier this week, he told ABC that much of what was on the video is "easily disprovable based on corroborative evidence. ... The fact of the matter is he still is not responsible. The evidence -- not Joran, the evidence -- says he's not responsible for Natalee's death."
Holloway, 18, was last seen in the early hours of May 30, 2005, leaving an Oranjestad, Aruba, nightclub with van der Sloot, Deepak Kalpoe and his brother, Satish. Mos dropped charges against the three men in December, saying he couldn't be sure of a conviction.  See a timeline of the case »
Holloway was visiting Aruba with about 100 classmates celebrating their graduation from Mountain Brook High School in suburban Birmingham, Alabama.
Holloway failed to show up for her flight home the following day, and her packed bags were found in her hotel room. E-mail to a friend
CNN's Tracy Sabo contributed to this report.
