Reggie Love, the guy partially responsible for transforming then-Sen. Barack Obama into the "president of cool," is opening up about his close relationship with the President in his new book, "Power Forward: My Presidential Education."
The book gives an inside look at the role Obama played as part mentor, part boss to Love, who served as his personal assistant for five years.
The young staffer, now 33, is credited for making Obama "hip" by showing him how to fist bump, introducing him to Jay-Z and buying him an iPod. He even surprised the President on his 49th birthday for a game of basketball alongside LeBron James, Kobe Bryant and Dwyane Wade.
According to the President, new trends and technology can't replace Reggie's work ethic. In a 2010 interview with The New York Times, Obama admitted that he didn't have an iPad, rather opting for his "iReggie, who has my books, my newspapers, my music all in one place."
Unlike the dreadful boss-personal assistant relationship many can attest to, Love became Obama's personal confidant and friend. During the raid that ended with the killing of Osama bin Laden, a tension-filled Obama found Love, Marvin Nicholson, another aide, and White House photographer Pete Souza, in the private dining room. To help the President pass the time, they played about "15 games of spades," Love has said.
Love first started working for Obama in the Senate back in 2006. He quickly climbed the ranks from staff assistant to "body man," a nickname given to him by the administration. Spending countless hours alongside the President, Love quickly became more than an aide, fostering a relationship that has led the Obama to call him his "little brother."
"Over the years, Reggie has been a friend, a teammate and an indispensable member of my staff," Obama said in a statement announcing Love's departure in 2011. "From my Senate office to the White House, his ability to juggle so many responsibilities with so little sleep has been an inspiration to watch. He is the master of what he does."
Love's book is set to hit stores on Feb. 3.
