(CNN Student News) -- October 1, 2013
October's first edition of CNN Student News begins with the uncertainty that ringed Washington, D.C. last night. We also look at the pros and cons of a new law that aims to give minors in California a "delete all" button when it comes to social media. And at the start of National Bullying Prevention Month, our Viewfinder segment brings some students' ideas on how to curb bullying.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Why might it be important to know who produced an opinion poll and how the poll was conducted?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. opinion poll
2. digital footprint
3. National Bullying Prevention Month
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. How did U.S. markets respond to the possibility of a federal government shutdown?
2. What are some arguments for and against the California law that would require websites to remove images and videos of minors upon request?
3. What discovery was made recently regarding a photograph taken at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania in 1863?
Discussion Questions:
1. What factors do you think people consider when forming their opinions about the federal budget? If you could talk to your representative or senator, how would tell him or her to vote regarding government funding and the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare)? Explain.
2. What would you want the authors of California's "eraser button" law to know about young people and their Internet use? What is your opinion of this law?
3. What are your thoughts on the advice given by the students in the video regarding ways to stop bullying? What support do you think bullied students might need?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
California; Gettysburg, Pennsylvania
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
