ROME, Italy -- Seven Manchester United supporters were taken to hospital after violence flared before the 1-1 Champions' League draw against Roma in Italy.
Manchester United supporters were segregated inside the Olympic Stadium for the Champions tie.
British Embassy officials in Rome said five fans received stab wounds while two others, including a 16-year-old boy, needed treatment for being drunk, the Press Association reported.
None of the stab victims is understood to have serious injuries following the clash between the rival fans outside the Stadio Olympico.
An embassy spokeswoman said: "Seven Manchester United supporters were taken to hospital after fighting broke out on the Pont Duca d'Aosta bridge which fans cross over the river to get to the stadium.
"Five are receiving treatment for stab wounds while two others, one who was a 16-year-old boy, were understood to be drunk.
"Their injuries are not thought to be serious and most of them will be discharged in the next couple of hours. One person may be kept in overnight for observation.
"The situation in the stadium is now fine and everything is running smoothly."
The embassy had warned travelling fans beforehand not to use the Pont Duca d'Aosta bridge because it was habitually used by Roma's notorious Ultras - a following of hardcore fans.
Roma coach Luciano Spalletti condemned the latest violence. "It's difficult to give a comment on what has happened," said Spalletti.
After watching a video replay of the ugly scenes, Spalletti added: "These people are sick."
The trouble marked the second consecutive game between Roma and Manchester United in the Italian capital which has been marred by violence.
Eighteen United fans needed hospital treatment in April after clashes on the terraces in Rome and outside the ground.
United boss Sir Alex Ferguson had hoped tonight's game would pass off peacefully but the British Embassy in Rome had warned supporters faced a "real danger of attack" by the Ultras.
The 1,200 British supporters who made the journey were largely shepherded into the stadium two hours before kick-off, with clear segregation in place in the less than capacity crowd. E-mail to a friend
