Actress Zsa Zsa Gabor will undergo hip replacement surgery Monday after she broke her hip when falling out of bed, her publicist said Sunday.
Gabor, 93, will need the surgery on her right hip, publicist John Blanchette said. The operation is scheduled for 6 a.m. Monday (9 a.m. ET) and should last about four hours, he said.
A press conference is scheduled at Gabor's Los Angeles, California, home at noon Monday, he said.
Gabor's husband, Prince Frederic von Anhalt, told CNN earlier Sunday, "She has a broken hip and they have to operate on her. It's a complicated thing. It was an accident. And she is not that young any more."
Von Anhalt said Gabor fell out of bed Saturday night when she reached to answer the phone. An ambulance rushed her to the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles, California, after he called 911.
He said she was on medication and asleep early Sunday morning.
"Her family is by her side. No other information is available from the hospital per the family's request," hospital spokeswoman Roxanne Yamaguchi Moster said in a statement.
Blanchette said earlier Gabor was watching "Jeopardy!" when she fell out of bed.
"She has an active mind. She's very bright. She's funny. She always makes me laugh whenever I talk to her," Blanchette said. "Her body's failing her."
Blanchette said Gabor has been frail and "pretty much confined to a wheelchair" since a 2002 car accident. The crash occurred when the car in which she was riding with her hairdresser slammed into a light pole on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles.
Her husband has been caring for her, Blanchette said.
The glamorous Hungarian-born actress, the second of the three celebrated Gabor sisters, is most famous for her eight marriages. Among her husbands were hotel millionaire Conrad Hilton and Oscar-winning actor George Sanders.
Her more prominent films include John Huston's 1952 Toulouse-Lautrec biopic, "Moulin Rouge;" "The Story of Three Loves," 1953; "The Girl in the Kremlin," 1957; and Orson Welles' classic "Touch of Evil," 1958.
In 1989, Gabor was sentenced to 72 hours in jail for slapping a Beverly Hills police officer after a traffic stop. She also had to perform community service at a battered women's shelter.
The other Gabor sisters were Magda, the oldest, who died in 1997 five days shy of 83, and Eva, the youngest, who died in 1995 at 76.
Magda, an occasional stage actress, also was married to George Sanders at one time.
Eva is probably best remembered for her role as a socialite turned farmer's wife on the 1960s' TV sitcom "Green Acres."
CNN's Catherine Shoichet, Sonya Hamasaki and Jack Hannah contributed to this report.
