Novak Djokovic's blistering start to the year has secured him a place at the season-ending ATP World Tour Finals even before the second Grand Slam event of the year.
The Serbian has won 37 straight matches in 2011, claiming the Australia Open and six other tournament titles. His most recent came at the Rome Masters on Sunday when he defeated world number one Rafael Nadal.
He has now beaten Nadal in four finals this year, and was the man to end the Spaniard's two-year winning run on clay in Madrid just over a week ago.
And it was his victory in the final at Rome that handed the 23-year-old the 1,000 ranking points he required to ensure he will be at the finale of the season in London in November between the best eight players in the world.
Djokovic's last defeat came at the 2010 event at The O2 in the English capital when he lost to Roger Federer in the semifinals.
CNN Blog: Djokovic's dream year show no sign of slowing
Since then he has raised his game to such an extent that he could claim the number one ranking from Nadal if he reaches the final of the French Open, that starts Sunday, even if the Spaniard retains his title.
But Djokovic told the ATP's official web site Nadal is still favorite in Paris: "Let us be clear -- he is the king of clay and he is the best player ever to play on this surface.
"I have won against him twice in the last [nine] days which I think is an incredible achievement for me and it has given me a lot of confidence for the French Open.
"But this is only a couple of tournaments this year and he has been dominant on this surface for so many years."
Nadal is the only other player to secure a place at the ATP Tour Finals before the French Open when he achieved the feat in 2009.
After a hectic few weeks, Djokovic says he intends to put his feet up for a few days before focusing on the second Grand Slam tournament of the year.
"I am not going to touch the racket for the next four days," Djokovic said.
"I have had enough for now and rest is very important right now to recover, and then I'll get ready for Roland Garros, the most important tournament on this surface."
