Liverpool's Spain striker Fernando Torres may miss the struggling English Premier League club's derby clash with city rivals Everton later this month after suffering another injury setback.
Torres was forced off the pitch inside the first 10 minutes of Sunday's defeat by Blackpool with a groin injury, and the 26-year-old could now face two weeks on the sidelines.
He has already been ruled out of Spain's Euro 2012 qualifiers at home to Lithuania on Friday and away to Scotland on Tuesday.
"Fernando was assessed at Melwood and underwent a scan this afternoon," Liverpool's head of sports medicine and sports science, Dr Peter Brukner, told the club's official website on Monday.
"He will have intensive treatment over the next couple of weeks, but it is too early to say if he will be fit for the game against Everton."
The former Atletico Madrid star has endured a frustrating year, battling for both form and fitness.
Despite picking up a World Cup winners' medal with Spain in July, Torres' summer ended in disappointing fashion, as he exited the final against Netherlands early through injury after failing to score during the tournament.
He has also struggled to find the net at the start of the 2010-11 Premier League season, scoring just one goal in six matches.
Liverpool manager Roy Hodgson will be eager to include the forward in his team for the Merseyside derby on October 17, with his side in desperate need of a result.
After their latest defeat, the five-time European champions have picked up only one win from seven league matches, dropping into the relegation zone below Everton on goal difference.
Meanwhile, Brazil defender Alex will miss the international friendlies against Iran on Thursday and Ukraine on Monday after injuring his thigh in Chelsea's win over Arsenal on Sunday.
He suffered the problem late in the match, having scored the second goal in the Premier League leaders' 2-0 triumph, and is now expected to be out for three weeks, the club's website reported.
Alex may then also miss Chelsea's trip to Aston Villa and the Champions League clash with Russian side Spartak Moscow.
