The mayor of Newark has called for an investigation into a far-reaching New York Police Department surveillance program that was allegedly conducted in the New Jersey city's Muslim's neighborhoods.
"The Newark Police Department was not involved in joint operations with the New York Police Department as was described in the disclosed NYPD report," Mayor Cory Booker said Wednesday, referring to a leaked internal New York police document that allegedly detailed police surveillance of Muslim-owned business and mosques across the city.
"I strongly believe that we must be vigilant in protecting our citizens from crime and terrorism but to put large segments of a religious community under surveillance with no legitimate cause or provocation clearly crosses a line," he said.
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie also called the development "disturbing" and has asked the state's attorney general to investigate.
The 60-page report, first obtained by The Associated Press, showed maps of Newark and photographs of Muslim residences and mosques.
There was no statement in the document regarding terrorism or criminal activity.
The New Jersey mayor's statement comes a day after New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg defended the extent of police surveillance against critics who have suggested authorities went too far.
"We have to keep this country safe," the mayor told reporters, addressing questions about a separate report, also leaked to AP, that indicated the New York police were closely monitoring Muslim student associations in schools across the Northeast.
"If people put things on websites and make them available to everybody, of course the NYPD is going to look at anything that's publicly available in the public domain," Bloomberg said. "And given we've had a dozen people arrested or convicted of terrorist acts who've come from similar organizations, we have an obligation to do so."
That report said police have tracked websites, and on one occasion sent an undercover officer with students from the City College of New York on a whitewater rafting trip.
"The police department goes where there are allegations," Bloomberg said.
But Yale University President Richard Levin described New York's surveillance program as "antithetical to the values" of the New Haven, Connecticut, university and those of the nation.
When a reporter asked if police had gone too far by sending the agent on the rafting trip, Bloomberg responded, "No."
Police spokesman Paul Browne told CNN that his agency does not monitor students directly but confirmed it monitors websites they use.
"In any case where you see an NYPD officer present, it's an indication that we were looking at an individual," he said.
The Columbia University Muslim Students Association condemned the police practice in a statement this week.
"We are concerned that news reports about NYPD's presence on our campus have a chilling effect on the intellectual freedom necessary for a vibrant academic community," it read.
In December, a prominent group of Muslim leaders boycotted Bloomberg's annual interfaith breakfast in protest of the controversial program.
The move stemmed from a series of earlier news reports that raised questions about the nature of a CIA partnership with the New York police that allegedly helped to build city intelligence programs to spy on Muslims.
The boycott stood in a stark contrast to the goodwill the mayor earned among Muslim leaders when he defended plans for a controversial Islamic community center near the former site of the World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan.
The CIA later announced its internal watchdog found no issue or evidence of wrongdoing in the spy agency's partnership with New York police.
