(Oprah.com) -- Make your winter event one to remember! From a holiday movie night -- complete with snack ideas and trivia contests -- to a cookie swap, these gatherings will overflow with holiday cheer!
Holiday movie viewing party
Nothing rings in the season better than sitting by a cozy fire, sipping hot chocolate and enjoying your favorite holiday movie. So, why not make a party out of it! Here are our ideas for how to bring "It's a Wonderful Life" -- to life!
Make your own invitations by jazzing up plain card stock with quotes from the movie. Try, "Every time a bell rings an angel gets his wings" or "Merry Christmas, movie house! Merry Christmas, Emporium! Merry Christmas, you wonderful old Building and Loan!"
Set the scene! Make your house feel like a theater by ordering replica movie posters from the 1940s online. No snow outside? Make your house feel like Bedford Falls by decorating your windows with paper snowflakes!
As guests arrive have the movie soundtrack playing in the background.
Serve your guests traditional movie theater treats -- like hot buttery popcorn and oversized movie candy.
While George Bailey's drink of choice was bourbon, Clarence the angel preferred mulled wine (with extra cinnamon). Have both on hand in case your guests want to enjoy cocktails inspired by the film.
At the end of the movie, give your guests a holiday movie quiz! Have a copy of the film on DVD as the top prize.
Give each guest their own bell as a party gift -- so they too can help an angel get its wings!
Cookie swap party
Does the idea of making 17 different flavors of holiday cookies get you down?
Fret no more. Invite your friends over for a cookie swapping party! Each person should bring one dozen cookies per guest. So, if you are inviting 10 people, each participant should bring 120 cookies (roughly two to three batches). At the end of the party, each guest walks away with a whole variety of goodies! Here are some ways to make your cookie swap special.
Instead of zipper bags, make sure to have fun containers for people to transport their cookies home in.
Holiday themed disposable containers or cellophane bags will work.
Have appetizers ready! With all the sugary treats, make sure guests have something savory to munch on while they mingle.
Have festive music playing in the background.
Ask your guests to bring copies of their cookie recipe so everyone can recreate them at home.
Gift wrapping party
Take the boredom out of wrapping gifts by having a gift wrapping party! Invite friends over and whip through those packages while gossiping with the girls.
Make sure to have plenty of workspace. You can even rent card tables for the day.
Provide lots of tape and plenty of scissors so all your guests need to bring is their favorite wrapping paper. Use our gift wrapping guide for step-by-step instructions!
Plan a buffet style meal so people can take breaks from wrapping and nibble throughout the night. You could even do a buffet of just appetizers!
Have festive holiday music playing in the background. Or, pop in a classic holiday movie.
Plan an outing
Instead of staying inside, gather a group of friends and head to the great outdoors!
Go ice-skating. You can pack winter friendly snacks like hot chocolate or warm apple cider.
Find a local farm and see if they offer sleigh rides. Don't forget to bring a blanket!
Visit a Christmas tree farm and chop down your own tree!
Grab your favorite holiday CD, load up the car with snacks and explore the holiday lights on the houses in your neighborhood. (There's something to be said for someone who can create an entire reindeer out of blue and white flashing lights).
Have a snowman making contest. You can even hand out challenges, like making an Elvis snowman, a Big Bird snowman or the world's tallest snowman!
From the Oprah.com Holiday Exclusive  E-mail to a friend
Subscribe to O, The Oprah Magazine for up to 75% off the newsstand price. That's like getting 18 issues FREE. 

Subscribe now!
TM & © 2009 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
