New England Patriots tight end Aaron Hernandez stayed silent and out of sight on Monday while investigators, some wearing waders, searched a wooded ravine as they continued their probe into the death of a man whose body was found less than a mile from his home.
But he got a haircut.
A man who identified himself as Hernandez's barber, Robby Olivares, showed up at the player's home Monday evening and told CNN he gave his famous client a haircut.
"Beautiful! He's feeling good, he has a beautiful wife, he's in good spirits," Olivares said after spending time with Hernandez.
Police continued to sift through woods for clues that could shed some light on what happened to Odin Lloyd, 27, who a week ago was found dead less than a mile from Hernandez's expansive home in North Attleborough, Massachusetts.
Detectives search Patriots player's house again
For the first time since last week, Hernandez's lawyer broke his silence Monday, saying his client has been subjected to "a relentless flood of rumors, misinformation and false reports," including unsubstantiated accounts in some media outlets late last week that an arrest warrant had been issued in connection with the investigation.
CNN did not report that a warrant had been issued, and a law enforcement source told CNN Monday, "there is no arrest warrant. It wasn't true last week and it isn't true today."
Investigators working in woods near Hernandez's home would not respond to questions Monday about what they were looking for or its possible significance to the probe.
Authorities have been tight-lipped since Lloyd's body was found.
On Tuesday, a notice posted at the courthouse said all records relating to the investigation have been "impounded by order of the court."
The move seals all records related to the case, including search warrants.
Hernandez mum as probe continues
Three search warrants were issued in the case, according to the clerk of the Attleboro District Court, Mark Sturdy, but neither the warrants nor the results of any searches have been made public.
Hernandez has yet to say anything publicly. A statement from his lawyer last week acknowledged there was an investigation but didn't confirm media reports that authorities had questioned his client.
Lloyd died of a gunshot wound, a law enforcement source with knowledge of the investigation said Thursday.
Lloyd's sister, Olivia Thibou, told CNN that Lloyd and Hernandez were friends who were at a Boston nightclub together a few days before Lloyd's death. She said her brother was dating the sister of Hernandez's fiancee. She did not know when or how her brother and Hernandez met.
Thibou said she did not know of any problems between Hernandez and Lloyd, who worked for a landscaping company. She said she couldn't imagine why anyone would want to kill her brother, whom she described as a friendly guy who was like a father to her 7-year-old daughter.
In one development of sorts Monday, Hernandez's attorney and District Attorney Sam Sutter traded compliments.
Michael K. Fee's statement regarding the "flood of rumors, misinformation and false reports" about his client praised Sutter's office, saying, "None of these false reports came from official sources and we appreciated the professionalism and restraint shown by the Bristol County District Attorney's Office to date with regard to its public statements while its investigation is under way."
Sutter, in turn, released a brief statement Monday night saying, "Those of us who are involved in this ongoing investigation appreciate the positive remarks about our professionalism."
