A driver's best bet is to stay home when wintry weather coats the roads in snow and ice, particularly in areas such as the Southeast where motorists and road crews aren't in the habit of dealing with icy conditions.
The Georgia Department of Transportation is urging travelers to avoid all but absolutely necessary driving until at least Tuesday as a storm that arrived Sunday night continues to cause treacherous traveling.
For those who must go out, it's important to plan ahead.
AAA recommends motorists pack a winter driving kit made up of the following: a bag of abrasive material (sand, salt or cat litter), a snow shovel and brush, traction mats, an ice scraper, booster cables, a flashlight, window washing liquid, cloth, warning flares or triangles, a cell phone, gloves and a blanket.
Try to ease your vehicle out of parking spaces without spinning the wheels. Drive back and forth for several feet in either direction to clear a path. Spread sand or salt near the wheels if additional traction is needed.
If you do get stuck, you can contact AAA via phone, iPhone app or at AAA.com.
De-ice vehicles before driving, urges the Mississippi Department of Transportation. Iced-over vehicles can limit driver visibility, and ice flying off cars can be hazardous to fellow drivers.
If you have to drive in conditions with low visibility, go slowly, with your headlights on low beam, AAA advises. Allow at least double the usual following distance between cars.
Never use cruise control on a slick surface. Steering around an obstruction is often safer than braking suddenly at speeds above 25 mph on a slippery surface, according to AAA's pamphlet "How to Go on Ice and Snow" (PDF).
When you do brake, don't remove your foot from the brake or pump the pedal if you have antilock brakes, AAA advises. Drivers of cars that don't have antilock brakes should keep their heel on the floor and apply firm pressure to the brake pedal to the threshold of locking.
In case of skidding, steer in the direction you want the front of the car to go, keeping your eyes on your travel path. And don't slam on the brakes; you're likely to make it harder to get back in control.
