Chelsea Handler has made a clean break from E!.
Or at least we assume it was clean, since Handler's final "Chelsea Lately" episode Tuesday included one of her infamous celebrity-accompanied shower scenes.
Over the past seven years of "Chelsea Lately" on the E! network, host Handler has roped two other stars -- friend Sandra Bullock and fellow late night host Conan O'Brien -- into having nude shower fights with her. The running gag was brought to a close on Tuesday as an indignant Ellen DeGeneres climbed into Handler's roomy shower set, fully clothed but wearing a shower cap, demanding answers as to why Handler never had her on the show.
"Is it because I'm a lesbian?" DeGeneres asked Handler, who, per usual, was stark naked.
"No!" Handler responded. "I didn't even know you were a lesbian. I thought you were married to Ryan Seacrest."
You didn't think Handler would say goodbye to E! without landing another joke against the network's patron saint of celebrity news, did you?
What we'll miss about 'Chelsea Lately'
Throughout "Chelsea Lately's" eight-season run, Handler has commandeered an unabashedly salty late night show, which on a typical night included a ring of celebrity trash-talking comedians and a celebrity interview that ran more bawdy than promotional.
Those irritated by the Justin Biebers and Kardashians of the world likely found a kindred spirit in Handler, who wasn't ashamed to have open contempt for some of her show's topics. (One of the rumored reasons for Handler's exit was that she just didn't want to talk about Bieber anymore.)
It's no surprise that neither the pop star nor E!'s first family participated in Handler's farewell show Tuesday, but there wasn't a shortage of celebrity guests. Handler is known to run with a powerful crew that includes A-list actress Jennifer Aniston. On Tuesday, the former "Friends" star joined Sandra Bullock and Mary McCormack for a mock intervention (sit through it until the end; the surprise guest is worth it), and Miley Cyrus also showed up to perform a cover of Roy Orbison's "It's Over."
Several more famous faces arrived to help sing Handler off the network, from Fergie and Gwen Stefani, to Gerard Butler, Selena Gomez, Dave Grohl and Alanis Morissette. Stefani, who accidentally called "The Colbert Report" the "Colbore Report" at the Emmys on Monday, poked fun at her mistake by introducing Handler as her "good friend, Chelsea Hammer."
"Goodbye to E!, it's time to move on," the stars sang in unison before instructing in classic Handler fashion, "so roll yourself a joint, and have a drink."
On a more serious note, Handler did make some final remarks.
"I want to thank every single person who's shown up for me in the last seven years," Handler said. "I never really got a good chance to be serious and say thank you, and I want you to know that I am grateful for this career."
Handler is moving on to Netflix from E!, where she's expected to produce some comedy specials and deliver a new talk show in early 2016.
"Thank you to my family, and mom I hope you're watching me," Handler said in her goodbye speech. "I'll see you on Netflix!"
