Serbian authorities have put up wanted posters for war crimes suspect Ratko Mladic at police stations across the country in their search for the highest-ranking figure from the Bosnia-Herzegovina conflict to remain at large, according to Serbian media reports.
Ratko Mladic, pictured in 1993, is the highest-ranking figure from the conflict still at large.
Mladic faces charges of genocide and crimes against humanity before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) in the killing of almost 8,000 Muslim men and boys in the town of Srebrenica in July 1995.
The posters remind people of the 1 million euro ($1.3 million) reward for information leading to Mladic's capture, according to Serbian media reports.
Authorities also recently put up notices about the 250,000 euro ($334,000) reward for information leading to the arrest of Serbia's other fugitive, Goran Hadzic, according to the reports released Saturday.
The posters provide a phone number and promise that informants will enjoy "guaranteed secrecy of data and identity," Serbia's B92 network reported.
Last month, the office of the war crimes prosecutor in Belgrade announced that Serbian police -- acting on the prosecutor's request -- searched for Mladic and Hadzic around the town of Arandjelovac, 45 miles (75 kilometers) south of Belgrade.
Mladic is the top-ranking figure from the conflict to remain at large following the July arrest of former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic.
Mladic, who commanded the Bosnian Serb military during the 1992-95 war in Bosnia-Herzegovina, has been on the run for 13 years, ever since the international tribunal issued the indictments against him and those against 51 others. He disappeared after former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic was arrested in 2001.
The tribunal has accused Serbia of knowing Mladic's whereabouts and letting him avoid capture, but the country's leaders have denied protecting him.
Mladic is one of the major stumbling blocks to Serbia's admission to the European Union.
Serbia's government signed a preliminary agreement last April setting the country on the path to full EU membership. But ratification of the deal was made conditional on Serbia sending Mladic to the Hague.
