(CNN Student News) -- August 26, 2013
Syria offers U.N. inspectors access to sites of suspected chemical weapons attacks, and a wildfire threatens both Yosemite National Park and city services in San Francisco. Get the details on both stories in Monday's program. Plus, thousands of Americans re-enact the 1963 March on Washington, and Bernice King talks about being the daughter of a civil rights leader. And we meet a CNN Hero who helps mentor teenage refugees.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might communications tools used by organizers of the recent march on Washington differ from those used by organizers of the 1963 event? How might these tools have influenced who attended these events?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects from today's show:
1. chemical weapons
2. national park
3. March on Washington
4. refugee
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Yosemite National Park is located within what state?
2. Sarah Murnaghan received two lung transplants to help combat what disease?
3. What group does CNN Hero Blair Brettschneider strive to help?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why might international inspectors want to investigate the site of a suspected chemical attack in Syria's civil war? What challenges might they face? What do you think might be some of the possible outcomes of these inspections?
2. What do you think it would be like to be the child of a national leader? What advantages and challenges might this present? How might it affect your choices in life?
3. What challenges might refugee students face in getting an education? How might they address and overcome these challenges? In what ways might others be able to help them?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
North America
Yosemite National Park; Washington, D.C.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
