(CNN Student News) -- November 21, 2013
Talks surrounding Iran's controversial nuclear program lead off Thursday's edition of CNN Student News. We also discuss the Presidential Medal of Freedom, President John F. Kennedy, the Red Planet, and CNN's Hero of the Year. Plus, we watch as helmet sensors, which aim to monitor potential for concussions, are put to the test.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How important is it for the news media to report the shortcomings as well as the successes of new technologies?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. sanctions
2. Presidential Medal of Freedom
3. concussion
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What's the status of nuclear talks regarding Iran's controversial nuclear program?
2. Who is CNN's Hero of the Year? What announcement did he make on the program?
3. How many active NASA missions are currently studying Mars? What is the purpose of NASA's MAVEN mission? How long will it take to reach Mars? What is this mission's cost?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think there are different opinions in the international community with regard to sanctions against Iran? What might be some pros and cons of each proposed strategy? If you were an adviser for the United Nations, which strategy would you recommend? Why?
2. What do you think might be the criteria for the Presidential Medal of Freedom? What are your thoughts on yesterday's honorees? In your opinion, who else might be deserving of this award?
3. What might be the benefits and drawbacks of the helmet technology featured in the program? Why might different helmet sensors give different results for similar impacts? What additional testing might be needed? Can you think of other uses for the kind of device featured in the program? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Iran
North America
Arlington, Virginia
Mississippi River
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
