(CNN)  -- Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard has had an operation on his groin and will be out of action for four weeks, the English Premier League club confirmed on Friday.
The England midfielder is thought to have sustained the injury during the February 6 victory at Chelsea, although he continued to play for the club until Sunday's 3-1 win over league leaders Manchester United.
However, Gerrard did not travel to Portugal for Thursday's 1-0 defeat at Braga and will now miss the return leg of the Europa League last-16 tie at Anfield on March 17.
"Gerrard has undergone successful surgery on his groin and will be out for up to four weeks. The decision was made following consultation with a specialist," said a statement on Liverpool's official website.
The 30-year-old will now miss at least three Premier League games, including upcoming trips to Sunderland and West Brom plus a home game against Manchester City.
With Liverpool lying in sixth position in the table, the best manager Kenny Dalglish can hope for is that his skipper will have recovered in time for the club's last six league matches this season.
Gerrard has also been ruled out of England's Euro 2012 qualifying match against Wales on March 26, as well as a friendly against Ghana.
United will be without Nani for Saturday's FA Cup quarterfinal against Arsenal, with the influential Portugal winger expected to be sidelined for about three weeks after requiring stitches in the leg injury he suffered against Liverpool.
"We have managed to stitch it, which is great news," United manager Alex Ferguson told reporters. "What we are guarding against is infection, but the swelling has gone down a great deal.
"It is very difficult to say when he will be back but we do have a two-week break after next Saturday. He will be ready for the return of that, that's for sure."
England defender Rio Ferdinand and midfielder Park Ji-Sung remain sidelined, but Serbia center-back Nemanja Vidic returns from suspension as Ferguson prepares for first Arsenal and then Tuesday's second leg of the Champions League last-16 tie at home to Marseille.
