The son of an Oscar-winning composer was indicted Thursday in the strangulation death of his girlfriend, whose body was found last week in a New York hotel bathtub.
The details of the indictment of Nick Brooks, 24, are sealed and will not be revealed until his next court appearance, on January 4, said Manhattan District Attorney spokeswoman Joan Vollero.
Police say the bruised body of swimsuit designer Sylvie Cachay, 33, was found at the exclusive Soho House club and hotel.
Brooks, whose father, Joseph Brooks, is the music director who produced the song "You Light Up My Life," was arraigned on charges of attempted murder and strangulation, police said.
He pleaded not guilty.
His attorney, Jeffrey C. Hoffman, said Brooks believes at least one other person had been in the room.
"I believe he is, in fact, not guilty," Hoffman said.
According to court documents, police said the only person in the hotel room with Cachay, besides Brooks, was a hotel employee who delivered ice and was inside for about one minute.
Brooks escorted the employee into the room and remained after the worker left, police said.
Authorities said they relied on interviews with hotel employees and surveillance videos from the location.
On Sunday, Cachay's brother said -- in comments issued through her spokeswoman -- that his parents "are devastated by the loss of their daughter, so much so that they cannot make a coherent statement at this time."
"Nobody should have to make arrangements to bury a child," Patrick Orlando-Cachay said in the statement. "It's a day-by-day grieving and healing process."
Police said they are investigating a time frame in which the killing occurred.
Cachay's body sustained bruising on the neck and bite marks, and was found clothed in the hotel room bathtub, the spokesman said.
An autopsy indicated that the designer suffered injuries that were consistent with neck compression, court records show.
Cachay suffered internal hemorrhaging, injuries to her scalp and cuts to her lips and mouth.
The medical examiner's office will provide more details surrounding Cachay's death "pending toxicology and tissue testing, which would take a few weeks," spokeswoman Grace Burgess said.
"Sylvie Cachay was one of those rare individuals who truly sparkled when she spoke," said publicist Kate Godici. "She will be deeply and painfully missed, yet celebrated, honored and never forgotten."
