(CNN)England's abject cricket World Cup record endures.
Its team has been eliminated before the group stages of the competition has even finished after a demoralizing defeat to Bangladesh, who qualified for the quarterfinals.
It means England, who invented the game of cricket but has never won the World Cup, still hasn't been past the last eight stage of the one-day tournament since 1992.
Chasing a target of 276 off its 50 overs in Adelaide, Australia, England slumped to 260 all out, with only Jos Buttler offering any meaningful resistance.
The wicketkeeper struck a brisk 65 after England's top order failed to lay a platform for victory, before he was dismissed by Taskin Ahmed.
England captain Eoin Morgan failed again with the bat, lasting just three balls before succumbing to Rubel Hossain for no score.
It marks another miserable display from one of cricket's supposed powerhouses on the world stage, its only victory in the 2015 competition coming against minnows Scotland.
Whereas other teams in the tournament have taken an aggressive approach, some posting totals of over 400, England's modus operandi has looked slovenly and outdated.
"Pretty poor to be knocked out of a World Cup so early, it is very disappointing," Morgan said at the post-match presentation.
"I can't put my finger on it at the moment. I'm gutted. We've struggled and fought our way since we arrived -- one of our big things was to fight hard and try to get through to the quarterfinals.
"Our expectations are much higher than this. I've no idea what happens from here -- it's a surprise we're out this early. There will be an inquest over the next few weeks and we'll go from there."
Coach Peter Moores is bound to come in for renewed criticism, and the clamor for the return of one of England's best one-day players -- Kevin Pietersen -- is sure to grow louder.
South African-born Pietersen was sacked after the disastrous tour to Australia in 2014/15, the England and Wales Cricket Board saying he was a disruptive dressing room influence.
"It's a hollow feeling at the moment," Moores said after England's defeat. "You feel like you have let people down."
Despite committing a year to prepare for the World Cup, England dismissed Alastair Cook as skipper less than two months before the tournament in Australia and New Zealand began.
Mahmudullah was Bangladesh's hero, scoring the country's first ever century at the World Cup, as it recorded one of the biggest wins in its history.
England now face a dead rubber against Afghanistan on Friday while Bangladesh has cemented its place in the last eight.
