Hertha Berlin have reacted to their slump to the bottom of the German Bundesliga by announcing that coach Lucien Favre has been relieved of his duties.
Lucien Favre has paid the ultimate price for Hertha Berlin's dismal start to the Bundesliga season.
Hertha's 5-1 defeat to Hoffenheim, a result which left them rooted to the foot of the table, was their sixth consecutive league reverse.
The club were also knocked out of the German Cup by second division 1860 Munich last week and were held to a 1-1 draw by Lithuanian side Ventspils in their opening Europa League group fixture 10 days ago.
Favre's assistant Harald Gamperle has also been relieved of his duties with youth-team coach Karsten Heine appointed on an interim basis.
"Coach Lucien Favre and Harald Gamperle have been relieved of their duties effective immediately," said a statement on the club's official Web site.
"The training of the team will be controlled on an interim basis by Under-23 coach Karsten Heine."
Favre took charge just over two years ago and, after consolidating their position in the top flight in his first year, he then led them to an unexpected fourth-placed finish last term.
Hertha were even still in the race for the Bundesliga title with two games of the season remaining.
However, the loss of key players Andrei Voronin, Marko Pantelic and Josip Simunic this summer and the failure to find adequate replacements has contributed to a terrible start to the season which has cost the Swiss his job.
Hertha's only league win this year came on the opening day of the season, when they defeated Hannover 1-0.
Since then they have been beaten by Borussia Monchengladbach, Bochum, Werder Bremen, Mainz, Freiburg and Hoffenheim.
Crowd figures have also slumped from an average of over 50,000 last season to under 40,000 for their last home game against Freiburg as fans became disillusioned with their side's dramatic slump.
Explaining the decision, general manager Michael Preetz told a news conference: "We are caught in this downward spiral, we have tried to get out of it but unfortunately it has not been possible.
"After the last two large defeats in the Bundesliga we find ourselves in a situation where it has become necessary for Lucien Favre and Harald Gamperle to leave. The board is fully behind my decision."
