Look out Liverpool, Mario Balotelli has arrived.
As famous for his larger than life demeanor as he is for his goalscoring exploits, the mercurial striker has completed his move from AC Milan to the English Premier League club.
He joined on a long-term deal, Liverpool said on its website Monday wit the fee reportedly around $26.5 million.
"I'm very happy," Balotelli told the club's official website. "We've been talking about coming here and now I'm happy to be here.
"Liverpool are one of the best teams here in England and the football is very good here.
"It's a great team with young players, and that's why I came here."
The Italian is well known to English football fans after a turbulent two-and-a-half-year stint with Manchester City, where he helped the team to a first league title in 44 years while also gaining a cult following for his off-field antics.
But Balotelli could be just the man Liverpool needs to help spearhead its Premier League and Champions League challenge following the departure of last season's top scorer Luis Suarez to Barcelona.
"Suarez's exit left a hole in the side in terms of his goals but more than that, it also left a hole in terms of Liverpool losing a player idolized by the Kop," Jim Boardman, writer for Anfield Road and The Anfield Wrap websites, told CNN.
"Few players are idolized at Anfield to the same kind of level that Suarez enjoyed but Balottelli is in prime position to take that crown.
"There are question marks about his temperament but Liverpool are signing a 24-year-old established Italian international, a different proposition to the teenager Manchester City courted, the youngster Jose Mourinho said was unmanageable.
"Every signing is a risk but at £16 million in today's market that risk is far smaller than the ones taken a few transfer windows ago when Liverpool paid £35 million for Andy Carroll and Chelsea paid £50 million for Fernando Torres.
"Balotelli will bring joy to Anfield, whether it's more from his natural talent as a comedian or a goalscorer remains to be seen, but the chances are it'll be both."
