April 1, 2014
Could tens of thousands of wind turbines weaken hurricanes? The theory behind the question is explored in this April first edition of CNN Student News. Also in today's show: North Korea and South Korea exchange fire in the waters off the Korean Peninsula, a Japanese whaling program is banned, and we kick off Financial Literacy Month.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What sources would you consult if you were researching your cost of attendance at different colleges?
Key Concepts:   Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  armistice
2.  wind turbine
3.  Cost of Attendance (COA)
Fast Facts:   How well were you listening to today's program?
1.  In what year did an armistice end fighting between North Korea and South Korea?  What did North Korea do yesterday that it had not previously done?  How did South Korea respond to this action?
2.  What is the United Nations telling Japan regarding an annual whale hunt?  Why?  What has Japan said about this program? What forms of whale hunting are permitted?  How do some Japanese view the issue of whaling?
3.  According to the video, what percentage of the world's population has Internet access?  Why is Facebook turning its attention to drones and satellites?  According to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, how might people in developing countries use the Internet?  What challenges exist with connecting people who live in remote parts of the world?  Why does Facebook say that it is pursuing a strategy of "Internet for all"?  Why do some question the company's motives?
4.  What are some potential benefits and downsides of the use of wind turbines?  According to a Stanford University study, how might 78,000 wind turbines off the coast of New Orleans have impacted the force of Hurricane Katrina?
5.  What did 14-year-old Suvir Mirchandani learn about the cost of ink as he worked on his science fair project?  What is a font?  What font does the U.S. government typically use for its printing?  What change does Mirchandani suggest to save the government money?  How have some critics responded to his suggestion?
Discussion Questions:
1.  What is the status of the conflict between North Korea and South Korea?  Why do you think that there has never been a peace treaty to settle this conflict?  How and when has North Korea flexed its military muscle before?  Why do you think that South Korea labels these as 'hostile' acts?
2.  What do you think of the suggested use of many wind turbines to reduce storm strength?  What might be some pros and cons of this approach?
3.  What does altruistic mean?  In the video, we hear that Facebook says its motives for connecting all the world's people to the Internet are altruistic. Why might some people agree with this rationale and others doubt it?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
