Two goals from striker Javier Hernandez helped Manchester United go four points clear at the top of the English Premier League on Saturday after a 4-0 win at Wigan Athletic.
The 22-year-old converted Portugal winger Nani's cross after 17 minutes, and the Mexico international put Alex Ferguson's team two goals ahead with 16 minutes of the match left.
England's Wayne Rooney added a third goal for the 18-time champions on 84 minutes as he finished from substitute Dimitar Berbatov's pass, and Brazilian full-back Fabio completed the rout three minutes from time.
The result helped the Old Trafford team move onto 60 points from 27 matches, four points clear of second-placed Arsenal -- who face Birmingham City in the League Cup final on Sunday.
United's comprehensive victory against second-bottom Wigan served as perfect preparation for Tuesday's trip to reigning champions Chelsea, who are 15 points behind the Red Devils in fifth and not playing this weekend.
Elsewhere, 10-man Newcastle United stayed in ninth position after a 1-1 draw at home to seventh-placed Bolton Wanderers.
Captain Kevin Nolan gave Alan Pardew's Newcastle an early lead with a header against his former club, but Bolton's on-loan striker Daniel Sturridge leveled the match with his fourth goal in four games.
Newcastle defender Ryan Taylor was dismissed after 54 minutes for a two-footed tackle on Sweden forward Johan Elmander, but Bolton could not make the most of their numerical advantage.
Two goals from Jermaine Beckford secured a 2-0 home success for Everton over Sunderland, who dropped below Bolton on goal difference.
David Moyes' side took the lead at Goodison Park thanks to a Beckford shot which deflected off defender Titus Bramble, and the former Leeds United forward secured his first-ever Premier League brace after 39 minutes.
It was a disappointing result for Sunderland boss Steve Bruce, who signed a new contract this week which will keep him at the Stadium of Light until 2014.
Aston Villa moved away from the relegation zone courtesy of a convincing 4-1 defeat of Blackburn Rovers at Villa Park which moved the home team up to 12th -- a point above their opponents.
Stand-in captain Ashley Young fired Gerard Houllier's side ahead with a second-half penalty, and Villa went two goals clear when Rovers defender Grant Hanley diverted a Marc Albrighton cross into his own net after 62 minutes.
England winger Stewart Downing raced clear of the visitors' defense to calmly convert a third goal in the 65th minute, but Croatian striker Nikola Kalinic responded for Blackburn with nine minutes left.
England international Young made sure of the win when he hammered home Downing's pass, and Blackburn's misery was complete when captain Ryan Nelsen received his marching orders in stoppage time.
Wolverhampton Wanderers moved out of the relegation zone on goal difference above West Brom with a 4-0 win against Blackpool.
It was a fitting victory for Wolves, on the day it was announced former defender Dean Richards had died, aged 36, after a long struggle with illness.
Mick McCarthy's team took the lead thanks to Matt Jarvis' curling shot after two minutes, and it got worse for Blackpool -- who beat fourth-placed Tottenham 3-1 on Tuesday -- when striker DJ Campbell was sent off for a push on Richard Stearman.
On-loan Tottenham midfielder Jamie O'Hara doubled Wolves' advantage nine minutes into the second half, before two late goals by Sylvan Ebanks-Blake confirmed the three points and left Blackpool in 14th -- four points above the drop zone.
In Sunday's Premier League fixtures, third-placed Manchester City host Fulham and sixth-placed Liverpool travel to bottom side West Ham.
