(InStyle.com) -- As an aspiring ballerina, 9-year-old Brooke Burns took an aggressive approach to makeup. "I would borrow my mom's red Borghese lipstick and smear it on like a clown!" she says.
"For sexy eyes, there is nothing better than this drugstore black liner."
Nowadays, the 29-year-old Burns, a single mom, tries to pass along subtler application tips to her 7-year-old daughter. "I taught her 'a dab'll do ya,' "says the actress, who stars in the ABC comedy "Miss Guided." "She's going to wear it anyway, so she might as well have some experience."
Did you pick up any makeup tricks working as a model?
One of my favorites is putting white pencil on the inside of the bottom eyelid for that very awake look. At night if I'm in a hurry, I'll just put on a lot of mascara and black pencil all the way around the inner rim. It's a totally sexy eye in a minute and a half.
What's the one makeup item you can't live without?
I'm in love with Revlon Color Stay foundation. I can do anything in that makeup and it stays. Plus, it has sunscreen in it and gives me a really natural glow. It covers everything.
You alternate between being a blonde and a brunette. Which do you prefer?
My natural color is dark blond, but right now I like being a brunette. I did a movie last summer and they dyed my hair platinum -- I hated it. I have a big personality, and I think big personality plus blond hair makes me come across as glib. With dark hair, people look at your face more. Before, it was all about the hair.
How do you keep color-treated hair healthy?
I've never found a conditioner that makes my hair feel as amazing as Nature's Therapy Mega Moisture Nurturing shampoo by L'Oréal. My hairdresser used it on me one time, and now I'm obsessed. I also use a new color from Paul Mitchell -- it's called Fudge Brownie -- that's incredible. So many people comment, "Your hair looks so healthy!"
Have you always had great hair?
No. I totally had big hair in high school. I was a big user of the hot rollers and teasing. And I had mall bangs. I also wore my hair in a bun a lot because of all the dancing I did. I wasn't really popular in high school.
No one will believe you if you say you weren't popular.
"Olive Oyl" was my nickname. I was totally gangly and a foot taller than all the boys. It was not attractive.
Clearly you've come a long way. What's your secret?
I think it's very important to take care of your skin. Obviously the No. 1 thing is sunscreen. All my life I have used Oil of Olay as my daytime moisturizer because my mom did. I also use their foaming face wash. It's the best makeup remover ever. And in the morning I use Olay Age Defying Daily Renewal cleanser because it has these tiny microbeads that are great for exfoliating. People go, "You have such great skin!" and I'm, like, "Thank God I'm not spending $150 on products." I'm sure that stuff is great, but if it ain't broke, don't fix it. E-mail to a friend
Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!
Copyright © 2008 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
