Republican Scott Brown lost his second Senate race in two election cycles on Tuesday, as Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen defeated him to win a second term, according to a CNN projection.
Shaheen said late Tuesday night that Brown had called her to concede, and praised him for a "vigorous race."
The race represented Republicans' best chances at picking up a Senate seat in the Northeast -- one that was vital for Democrats to protect as they faced majority-threatening challenges elsewhere.
Over the summer, Brown used a series of crises to nationalize the race -- arguing that President Barack Obama and, by extension, Senate Democrats like Shaheen, are unable to govern effectively.
He was among the first Republican candidates to call for a travel ban from Ebola-stricken countries in West Africa. He ran ads focused on ISIS and the border security, and focused much of his campaign on hitting Democrats over illegal immigration.
Shaheen, meanwhile, turned to core Democratic economic issues and issues affecting working class voters and women. She hit Brown over what she argued were impossible-to-peg stances on lifting the minimum wage and mandating equal pay. She accused him of supporting GOP tax measures that promoted outsourcing while representing Massachusetts in the Senate.
View the full results
And on issues like Ebola and ISIS, Shaheen repeatedly decked Brown for "fear-mongering" and "grandstanding."
Perhaps most interesting, though, was that Brown was a candidate in New Hampshire at all.
In 2010 he rocketed to national stardom among conservatives when he put thousands of miles on his truck in deep-blue Massachusetts, defeated Martha Coakley and grabbed deceased Massachusetts Sen. Ted Kennedy's seat in a special election.
But Brown lost that seat two years later, in a campaign against a much tougher Democratic opponent -- liberal icon Elizabeth Warren.
A year later, after a trip to Iowa and a brief flirtation with the idea of running for president, Brown moved to his home state of New Hampshire and decided to take on Shaheen -- who Republicans viewed as vulnerable, but didn't have anyone with the star quality it'd take to beat her prior to Brown's arrival.
Shaheen cast Brown as a political opportunist, while Brown emphasized his roots in a state that he left when his parents divorced.
CNN's Magic Wall Midterm coverage
