(CNN Student News) -- November 20, 2013
A typhoon in the Philippines and tornadoes in the Midwestern United States: CNN Student News reports on the devastating power of these natural disasters and the long rebuilding processes facing survivors. We also examine why the new U.S. ambassador to Japan holds special significance for some Japanese, and we get a little selfie-centered to discuss Oxford Dictionaries' Word of the Year.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might video footage from a remote-controlled drone benefit a news report? What might be the drawbacks of this kind of footage? What should news producers take into account before using it?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. natural disasters
2. ambassador
3. selfie
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What similarities and differences do you see in video footage of the damage caused by Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines and tornadoes in the U.S. Midwest?
2. Who is the new U.S. ambassador to Japan? What did some people in the video say about the appointment? Why might some others have concerns about this appointment?
3. What does an etymologist study?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think some people stay in harm's way to capture video footage? In the video of tornado aftermath, one survivor says, "I don't know where to go. I don't know what to do." What might be the next step(s) for someone in this situation?
2. What do you think are the duties of an ambassador to another country? What might be the benefits and drawbacks of an ambassador having a unique connection with the country in which he or she serves?
3. What factors might influence a word's popularity? What circumstances might determine whether a word endures or fades away? Why do you think that the word "selfie" has become popular? Do you think its popularity will last? Why or why not?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Philippines
Japan
North America
Washington, Illinois
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
