Have you ever dreamed of watching every game of an entire baseball season? Be careful what you wish for. Major League Baseball intends to have two lucky fans do just that.
Starting Thursday, Major League Baseball's opening day, contest winners Mike O'Hara and "wingman" Ryan Wagner will view the entire 2011 season in the brand-new "MLB Fan Cave," a Major League Baseball press release announced Wednesday.
That means O'Hara and Wagner will view 2,430 regular season games, along with all post-season games, while stationed in front of three 60-inch TVs surrounded by a dozen 32-inch TVs, according to MLB.
In addition, these co-fanatics will spend their time, "chronicling their experiences and sharing their viewpoints on baseball and pop culture through Facebook, Twitter, a blog on MLB.com, custom videos and regular appearances on MLB Network," the release said.
"The MLB Fan Cave will give fans a creative new way to experience Major League Baseball," said Tim Brosnan, the Executive Vice President of Business for the MLB. "This is going to be a real-time experience which brings to life how people consume entertainment in 2011 with baseball at the center of it all."
If you're wondering why or how anybody would commit to this, you're not alone. As O'Hara points out in a video released by MLB.com, "Anytime somebody says you're going to go live in a cave you're frightened right off the bat... bears live in a cave, not people."
But this is not your average cave and the project has been under way since right after the World Series, MLB spokesperson Matt Bourne told CNN.
The 15,000-square-foot space in lower Manhattan was designed by Paul DiMeo of ABC's "Extreme Makeover: Home Edition," Wednesday's press release revealed.
It contains an 18-foot statue of Willie Mays, a deejay booth, a 1950s-style Pepsi Cafe, a Budweiser Game Room, a Fantasy Baseball Corner, and a pitching alley complete with a radar gun.
But the release also indicates that the cave is not just for the cavemen. The space will hold frequent events and offer haircuts and tattoos as well. On select days, the cave will offer appraisals for baseball memorabilia, and most importantly, we can all follow along through digital media to see if these two fans can do the impossible.
