A Texas woman vanished without a trace after visiting friends in Plano over Labor Day weekend, police said. Now her family and friends are desperately trying to find out what happened to Christina Marie Morris.
Morris, 23, lives in Fort Worth but was visiting friends in Plano, about 50 miles away, when she disappeared on August 30, according to her family. Relatives reported her missing on Tuesday night, four days after she was last seen.
Morris' parents filed a missing persons report on their daughter late Tuesday, according to police.
Morris was last seen by a friend, who walked her to a parking garage at the Shops at Legacy mall just before 4 a.m., but he did not walk her all the way to her car, police said.
She appears on surveillance video walking into the parking garage with the friend, police said.
"The guy ... is a friend of hers from high school. They had been at a friend's apartment hanging out and walked back together," Plano police spokesman David Tilley said Saturday.
Police later found Morris' vehicle in the parking garage, but there was no sign of the woman.
Her mother, Jonni McElroy, visited stores at the mall this week, desperately looking for anyone who may have seen Morris before she disappeared, CNN affiliate WFAA-TV reported.
"I'm not leaving. I will not leave here until I find clues to find my daughter," she told WFAA. Family and friends on Friday night also retraced Morris' steps, hoping to find answers to her whereabouts, the station said.
Police said Morris' cell phone is either dead or turned off. "We have been able to track the phone's last known location and that was in the Shops at Legacy," Tilley said.
Her boyfriend, Hunter Foster, put out a plea on his Facebook page this week asking for help finding Morris. "I'm worried sick and will do anything to get any information on the last time anyone has seen or talked to her please help and pray that she is ok," he said in a posting Tuesday. "Police are involved and we are going to find her and whoever has taken her or whoever she is with."
Plano authorities are asking for the public's help in locating Morris, who is described as 5 feet 4 inches tall, with blond hair and brown eyes, weighing 100 pounds. Anyone with information is asked to call police at 972-424-5678.
