The world of sport has paid its tributes to Livorno midfielder Piermario Morosini, who died Saturday after collapsing on the pitch during his side's Serie B game at Pescara.
The entire Italian football program this weekend was canceled and a minute's silence was observed at major league games around the world in his honor.
A similar tribute was also paid before the start of Sunday's Milan marathon.
Tennis player Sara Errani dedicated her victory in the Barcelona Open final to Morosini. "This tournament is for him," Errani told the WTA official website.
"It has been very hard. The images have impacted me a lot. It's amazing that these things can happen. It really makes you think."
Thousands of fans have gathered outside Livorno's Armando Picchi stadium to pay their respects, leaving flowers and scarves.
"You fought until the end, goodbye great Moro," read a banner outside the stadium.
Morosini dies after collapsing in Serie B game
"The family, the girlfriend of Piermario and AS Livorno Calcio wants to thank all of the people that in this time of pain have remembered a great athlete and a special person," read a statement on the club's official website.
The two main Italian sports papers La Gazzetta dello Sport and Corriere dello Sport had the same headline in their Sunday editions.
"Death on the pitch, football stops."
Udinese, who had loaned out Morosini to the second-flight club, pledged to help Morosini's disabled sister.
"We are profoundly in pain for the premature death of Piermario Morosini," read a statement on the club's official website.
"Through our non-profit organisation, 'Udinese for life', we will guarantee assistance to the sister of the unfortunate player, who has now been left on her own. "
The 25-year-old Morosini has been at Udinese since 2005, being loaned out to Bologna, then Reggina, Padova, Vicenza and finally Livorno.
He made 18 appearances for Italy's under-21s.
But his family life had been blighted by tragedy and he lost both his parents before his 18th birthday.
His disabled brother later committed suicide to leave him alone with his handicapped elder sister.
Pescara's authorities have announced that they will launch an inquiry into Morosini's death.
It has emerged that a parked car belonging to traffic police had initially blocked the ambulance's path into the stadium.
