The dramatic overthrow of Egypt's first democratically elected president, Mohamed Morsy has dominated the news agenda for much of this week.
But away from Cairo's tanks and protesters, the world has generated other headlines -- some of which you may have missed.
Here are five stories potentially drowned out by the noise of Egypt's unrest:
1. In the U.S. state of Arizona, 19 members of an elite firefighting squad were killed while trying to dig a firebreak to contain a then 6,000-acre blaze on Sunday night local time.
Nearly 600 firefighters and support workers battling the Yarnell Hill fire observed a moment of silence on Wednesday to honor those killed.
Read more: Moment of silence only interruption in effort to end fire
By Thursday evening -- despite gusty winds and temperatures in the 90s -- the blaze was said to have been 80% contained.
2. Pakistan has continued to suffer from deadly attacks throughout the week.
On Thursday, a suicide car bomber killed four soldiers in North Waziristan and four gunmen targeted a tanker carrying fuel for U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan, killing the driver.
The day before, a U.S. drone struck the compound of the Haqqani Network, killing 15 militants, Pakistani security officials said.
Read more: Militants target checkpoint, fuel tanker
Pakistan's government -- which has called for Washington to end drone strikes in the country -- said it strongly condemned the attack. Meanwhile, in the city of Peshawar on the same day, officials said militants killed six members of the Frontier Constabulary, a paramilitary force.
Read more: U.S. drone strike on Haqqani compound
The attacks followed car bombings on Sunday that killed at least 47 people.
3. In Indonesia, a 6.1 magnitude earthquake struck Aceh province on Tuesday, killing at least 30 and injuring almost 300 people.
Most of the victims were children and the elderly, who were struck by falling debris, officials said.
They said thousands of homes, schools and mosques were damaged and that the quake also triggered landslides, cutting off roads.
Read more: Death toll in Indonesia quake rises to 30
4. What is believed to be the final text sent from yacht that went missing in June, with six Americans and one Briton on board, was found in the satellite phone system used by the boat this week.
The schooner Nina was traveling between New Zealand and Australia when it was hit by a storm.
The message sent on June 4, but never delivered, reads: "THANKS STORM SAILS SHREDDED LAST NIGHT, NOW BARE POLES. GOINING 4KT 310DEG WILL UPDATE COURSE INFO @ 6PM."
The message gave search teams the approximate location and actual time of the last transmission, but the boat and its crew have still not been sighted.
Read more: Last text from missing boat says sails shredded
5. Finally, a hopeful story out of the Koreas. Pyongyang has agreed to Seoul's request to hold talks on reopening the Kaesong industrial complex.
The complex sits on the North Korean side of the border but houses the operations of several of South Korean companies and is seen as a major symbol of cooperation between the two countries.
It has been closed since April, when North Korea accused the South of seeking "to turn the zone into a hotbed of war."
Tensions were already high following Pyongyang's long-range rocket launch in December and an underground nuclear test in February.
Read more: Koreas to hold talks on reopening Kaesong complex
