(CNN Student News) -- February 13, 2014
The U.S. Congress has voted to "suspend" the debt ceiling, but what exactly does that mean? We explore the issue today on CNN Student News, and we report on how a major winter storm is icing up parts of the Eastern Seaboard. We also look at some fascinating research into whether babies can tell right from wrong.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How do you think that producers should decide which research studies to cover in their news programming? In your opinion, what criteria should be met before a study is included in news coverage?
Key Concepts:  Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. debt ceiling
2. avalanche
3. morality
Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What is meant by the term "debt ceiling"? What action did the U.S. Congress take regarding the U.S. debt ceiling? What is the next step in the process?
2. Describe the weather event that has impacted much of the U.S. Southeast. How was this weather impacting everyday life in the region? Why is an ice storm an especially dangerous weather event?
3. What is an avalanche? Why are avalanches dangerous? According to the video, what are some pieces of equipment that could help to save someone's life in the event of an avalanche?
4. How old are the babies in the video? Why are they shown a puppet show? What do they see in this show? Which bunny do they choose after the show? How do the babies react when the good bunny has one cracker and the bad bunny has two? How do they react when the good bunny has one and the bad bunny has eight? What conclusion do the researchers draw from their experiment?
Discussion Questions:
1. Why do you think that a majority of the U.S. House and Senate voted to raise the debt ceiling? If you were a member of Congress who voted either for or against raising the debt ceiling, how might you explain your rationale to your constituents?
2. Is your area at risk of ice storms, or have you ever experienced one? If so, what preparations do you make in advance of such a storm? What advice would you give others experiencing their first ice storm?
3. What do you think about the puppet show experiment seen in today's program? Do you think this is a valid way to determine whether or not humans are born with a sense of right and wrong? Why or why not? What other hypotheses might be generated by this study? Do you have any questions for the researchers? If you could ask them about their experiments, what questions might you have?
4. In your opinion, are humans born knowing the difference between right and wrong, or is this knowledge acquired in life? State your rationale.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
