World number one Rafael Nadal has been drawn to play Novak Djokovic, Tomas Berdych and Andy Roddick in the group stage of the ATP World Tour Finals in London.
The Spaniard was selected in Group A in the season-ending event, which sees the top eight players in the world compete against each other.
World number two Roger Federer, from Switzerland, has been drawn in Group B alongside Sweden's Robin Soderling, Briton Andy Murray and David Ferrer, of Spain.
Murray will open the tournament against Soderling on Sunday at 1400 GMT with Federer taking on Ferrer at 2000 GMT.
The following day Djokovic, from Serbia, will play Berdych, from the Czech Republic, at 1400 GMT, with Nadal taking on American Roddick in the evening.
In rankings released on Monday, Soderling climbed to fourth after his victory at the Paris Masters on Sunday, and despite Murray slipping to fifth he is hoping home advantage can inspire him in London.
He told his website: "It's an incredible atmosphere, a huge arena and it's one of the biggest competitions in tennis behind the Grand Slams, so I'm really looking forward to it.
"The last couple of weeks weren't as good as I'd have liked, although I actually won my first doubles competition with my brother, which was cool, but playing in front of a home crowd is always great. It would be a big one psychologically to win, so I'll give it my best shot."
Federer has also targeted victory at the World Tour Finals after his surprising defeat at the semifinal stage in Paris by Frenchman Gael Montfils.
But Federer has an excellent record at the season finale with 29 wins and seven defeats since his first appearance in 2002.
"I feel good. I'm playing well. I think I have good chances maybe in London for winning," Federer told the ATP Tour's official website. "I feel good physically. In a way it is a relief that I was able to finish the tournament [in Paris] in good physical health.
"I'm fresh mentally, too. This is the most important thing. Victories are important, but when you're not fit and when you're injured, it's bad. So I think I'm going to recover quite fast after that loss.
"It was not a bad match [against Monfils]. I'm happy with my performance. Clearly with a victory I would have had big chances of winning the tournament. This is not the case, so now I have to look at the future. I'm going to prepare for London."
