Two people were shot dead and two sheriff's deputies were wounded late Sunday afternoon outside a Walmart store in western Washington state, a Kitsap County Sheriff's spokesman said.
Three sheriff's deputies responded to the scene around 3:45 p.m. Sunday after getting a call about a suspicious person "from a bystander who had concerns about a person inside the store," Deputy Scott Wilson said.
The deputies approached one man outside the store's south entrance, but -- rather than responding verbally -- he ran from the scene, turned around to face the deputies and began shooting.
"(The deputies) called to him and said, 'Hey, we need to talk to you,'" said Wilson. "He turned around and shot at them, and they returned fire."
The male shooter was shot and later pronounced dead in the Walmart parking lot. As of Sunday night, authorities had not released his name, age or other details about him.
A young female -- thought to be a teenager, said Wilson -- also was shot, with emergency personnel then transporting her to Tacoma General Hospital. She eventually died from her wounds.
Wilson said authorities don't know if the female victim knew the male shooting suspect or if she was an innocent bystander.
The two deputies, both men with between five and 10 years of experience in the department, were sent to Tacoma General Hospital to be treated for what Wilson described as "non-life-threatening" injuries. The third deputy, a woman, wasn't hurt.
Wilson described the situation as "somewhat chaotic" but "stabilized."
"There is no danger to the community at this point," he said. "We think that all persons (who were) involved ... have been accounted for."
The Washington State Police were taking over as the lead investigative agency in the case, with the Kitsap County Sheriff's Department also requesting assistance from the FBI.
The incident occurred near one of the retail giant's stores in Port Orchard, a town just west of Parkwood. Located on Sinclair Inlet, Port Orchard is about 30 miles north-northwest of Tacoma and across Puget Sound from Seattle.
The store was locked down for about 20 minutes immediately after the shooting with about 100 people inside, Walmart customer Mike Lambert told CNN affiliate KIRO, with police tape used to cordon off the parking lot.
CNN's Greg Morrison contributed to this report
