A suspect accused of killing a Georgia police officer and wounding another one surrendered to authorities after a hostage standoff Friday night.
The incident was shown live on television as officers arrested suspect Jamie Donnell Hood in Athens, Georgia.
Hood, who was shirtless, emerged from the home a little after 11 p.m. with people whom authorities said he had held hostage.
SWAT officers descended on Hood, ending the saga that had lasted four days.
Hood was being held without bond Saturday in the Hall County Detention Center, Captain Eric Pozen of the Clarke County Sheriff's Office said.
Hood was wanted in connection with Tuesday's slaying of Senior Police Officer Elmer "Buddy" Christian, 34, and the wounding of Senior Police Officer Tony Howard, 43.
The shooting spurred a huge manhunt that climaxed when authorities learned that Hood was holed up in an apartment in Athens.
Authorities said Thursday evening that Hood was holding eight people hostage and they were negotiating with him.
At one point, authorities used the media to get a message to Hood.
"I want to commit to you, if you come out without a weapon, you will not be harmed," Vernon Keenan of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation said in a televised address.
Hood had asked negotiators to bring his mother to the scene, said John Bankhead, a GBI spokesman.
During negotiations, Hood insisted that he be arrested on live television because he feared authorities would kill him, CNN affiliate WGCL reported.
The incident began Tuesday afternoon on the east side of the city when a vehicle was carjacked, said Hilda Sorrow, a police spokeswoman.
Hood, who was believed to be involved, was later seen as a passenger in a red SUV, she said.
When Howard stopped the SUV, the man believed to be Hood got out and began shooting, police said.
As the gunman ran off, he came across Christian's patrol car and fired into the vehicle, Sorrow said.
The gunman eventually reached a highway and carjacked a Chevrolet Prizm, police said. It was later found abandoned, Sorrow said.
Athens is about 70 miles northeast of Atlanta.
CNN's Chuck Johnston contributed to this report
