(CNN)  -- A Tennessee detective's keen eye may have nabbed a serial killer.
Tennessee police say trucker Bruce Mendenhall implicated himself as a serial killer.
A long-distance truck driver gave statements implicating himself in six slayings in four states after Detective Sgt. Pat Postiglione discovered what appeared to be blood inside the cab of his rig, police said.
Bruce Mendenhall, 56, an independent truck driver from Albion, Illinois, is facing  homicide charges in the shooting death of Sara Nicole Hulbert, 25. Her body was found June 26 in the parking lot of a Nashville, Tennessee, truck stop, authorities said.
Mendenhall made his first court appearance Thursday via closed-circuit television. A judge declined to set bond.
Heading to the crime scene Thursday, Postiglione saw a tractor-trailer rig on the road that matched the description of a truck sought in the investigation. The rig pulled into the truck stop and stopped.  Watch police search Mendehall's truck »
Postiglione knocked on its door.
While talking with Mendenhall, Postiglione noticed what appeared to be blood on the inside of the driver's door. Mendenhall gave the detective permission to look inside the truck.
Postiglione found "some more evidence that I considered incriminating," he said.
Mendenhall was detained, police said, because he gave statements implicating himself in Hulbert's slaying. Knowing that the slaying was similar to other recent homicides in the South, Postiglione questioned Mendenhall about those as well, police said.
Mendenhall implicated himself in the death of Symantha Winters, 48, of Nashville, who was found shot to death June 6 in a trash container at a Lebanon, Tennessee, truck stop, police said.
He also implicated himself in a homicide in Alabama, one in Georgia and two in Indiana, the statement said. Those victims were not named.
Nashville police said they are in contact with agencies in those states regarding statements from Mendenhall, who is being held without bail. The truck was impounded and was being processed by the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation. E-mail to a friend
