"We aim 2 Tease, Please & Satisfy," the online classified ads said, according to police, but instead a Florida prostitution business allegedly lured men with the promise of sex with underage girls and robbed them instead.
A 22-year-old Deltona woman described by the Volusia County Sheriff's Office as the "ringleader" of the operation is now facing 12 felony charges and one misdemeanor.
Devin Rachelle Miller allegedly ran the business out of her home for at least four months, according to a sheriff's office press release, soliciting men with ads on backpage.com that showed pictures of what appeared to be underage girls and included phrases like "Hey Fellas Ready To Have the Night You've Always Dreamed Of?" and "Twice the Fun, Twice the Exitment"(sic).
An arrest affidavit obtained by HLN states that the sheriff's office was first alerted to the ads in December via a tip submitted to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children claiming that the females in the ads looked young.
Another tip submitted last month specifically alleged that one of the females in an ad was underage. According to an arrest affidavit, investigators determined that one of the girls was 16 and had been reported missing on March 5 and recovered on March 24.
Investigators interviewed that teen, and according to the arrest affidavit, she claimed men responding to the ads would pay to have sex acts performed by Miller or other females, but Miller and her male associates often robbed them at gunpoint when they arrived. The teen said that they sometimes stole up to $400 from "dates" who came to the house looking for sex.
"Devin would tell the guys that if they reported the robbery or the prostitution, that she would tell the police that they were at the house for prostitution and that they could go to jail," the arrest affidavit alleged.
Miller allegedly told the 16-year-old and a 17-year-old who was serving as a live-in nanny for a 2-year-old child in the home that she made thousands of dollars a week from the business.
One of the teens told investigators that "Devin was the 'PIMP,' the head leader and posted all of the backpage.com ads" and that she received a cut of any money the girls earned, the arrest affidavit stated.
According to the sheriff's office, the 2-year-old girl was sometimes present in the house when prostitution, drug use and robberies occurred.
Miller remains in custody at Volusia County Jail with bond set at $26,500. She is facing five counts of procuring a person under the age of 18 for prostitution, five counts of deriving support from the proceeds of prostitution, and one count each of unlawful use of a two-way communications device, child neglect and petit theft.
A public defender appointed to represent Miller had not returned HLN's calls Wednesday afternoon seeking comment on the case. Miller's arraignment is scheduled for April 24.
