Egypt's prime minister has appointed 14 new ministers and kept 13 in their current positions in a much anticipated government reshuffle that attempted to satisfy opposition protesters that accused the country's military rulers and the prime minister of not being serious about political and economic reforms.
The names of the new appointees were leaked to the state-owned al-Ahram newspapaer Monday hours before they are expected to take the oath of office in front of Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of the military council that took control of the country after President Hosni Mubarak was ousted on February 11.
The newspaper said the names were final and no more new names will be announced.
Prime Minister Esam Sharaf's new cabinet includes reformers such as Hazem Beblawi, who was appointed finance minister and deputy to the Prime Minister.
"The coming period is a delicate one," Beblawi said at a press conference Sunday evening. "Especially on the economic side and that's really what matters to the man on the street and the country's future."
Sharaf's new cabinet also includes Mohamed Kamel Omar in place of Mohamed Orabi as foreign minister; Amre Helmi as health minister; and Abdelfattah al-Banna, as minister of antiquities.
Zahi Hawass, one of the most well known Egyptians internationally known for his flamboyance, was removed as minister of antiquities after reports surfaced accusing him of questionable business deals and giving national treasures as gifts to the Mubaraks.
Two key ministries did not change leadership, interior and justice ministries. Experts say this may spark further protests in the coming days despite the interior minister firing more than 600 top police officials last week.
Sharaf has been under enormous pressure as activists and political groups have accused him of being weak in tackling the countries' political and economic challenges as well as demanding that the ruling Supreme Council of the Armed Forces to carry out the goals of the January 25th revolution.
The numbers of protesters, who camped out at Cairo's Tahrir square since July 8, dwindled from thousands to hundreds Monday, indicating some satisfaction of the cabinet reshuffle.
State-run Nile TV showed hundreds of protesters still camping out on Monday.
The cabinet appointments come as news of Mubarak's deteriorating health emerged.
The 83-year-old ex-ruler fell into a coma around noon Sunday, Mubarak lawyer Farid El Deeb told CNN. By Sunday evening, he had regained consciousness, said Mohamed Fathalla, the head of the Sharm el-Sheikh facility where Mubarak is recuperating.
"He is now stable after suffering a coma that did not last long," Fathalla told CNN.
Mubarak is due to appear in court on August 3 to face charges of abuse of power and killing protesters.
