Former NFL star Darren Sharper, wanted in New Orleans in connection with the alleged rapes of two women, has turned himself in to Los Angeles authorities.
A source told CNN that Sharper made arrangements to surrender to Los Angeles police and did so without incident Thursday evening.
Los Angeles police confirmed the arrest but did not provide details.
Earlier Thursday, the Orleans Parish district attorney's office in Louisiana had said Sharper, 38, and Erik Nunez, 26, each face two counts of aggravated rape.
If convicted, the two men face a possible sentence of life in prison without parole.
The New Orleans charges are in addition to charges Sharper already faces in California.
Nunez turned himself in to the Orleans Parish district attorney's office shortly after 9 a.m. Friday.
Last week, Sharper pleaded not guilty to the California charges, which included two counts of rape by use of drugs.
CNN reached out to an attorney for Sharper and to Nunez Thursday, but neither returned messages seeking comment.
Prosecutors in Louisiana said the two alleged rapes occurred on September 23 in a New Orleans apartment.
The alleged rapes in California occurred in October and last month, authorities said.
Prosecutors there said the five-time Pro Bowl player, who became an NFL Network analyst, is also under investigation in Arizona and Nevada.
Police in Tempe, Arizona, say they expect to file charges against Sharper soon.
"We have nothing yet. We anticipate filing charges very shortly and we are still waiting on a couple of results from the crime lab," Sgt. Mike Pooley said Thursday.
Las Vegas police said Friday that "an active and ongoing investigation surrounding Darren Sharper" was being conducted by the department's sexual assault unit. Police provided no other details.
In addition, a Florida woman last month filed a sexual battery complaint in Miami Beach against Sharper relating to a 2012 incident, a police report said.
According to the report, the woman was with two friends at a Miami Beach club in September or October 2012 when she met Sharper. The woman, her friends and another person went to Sharper's condo, where the woman claims the battery took place.
Miami Beach police are investigating the case, Miami Beach Detective Vivian Hernandez said last week.
One of Sharper's lawyers disputed all the rape allegations last week at his hearing.
"It was all consensual contact with women who wanted to be in his company," Leonard Levine said.
Sharper played for the Green Bay Packers, Minnesota Vikings and New Orleans Saints from 1997 through the 2010 season.
CNN's Paul Vercammen reported from Los Angeles, and Saeed Ahmed wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Steve Almasy, Dave Alsup, Suzanne Presto and Michael Martinez contributed to this report.
