Senior Pakistani and Indian military officials met Tuesday to discuss a border clash in Kashmir, the first major skirmish between South Asia's nuclear rivals since a 2003 cease-fire.
Indian army soldiers on the outskirts of Kashmir's summer capital Srinagar.
Pakistan's army spokesman Maj. Gen. Athar Abbas told CNN that Pakistan "made our point clear" regarding the firefight, which he said began after Indian soldiers crossed the Line of Control that separates Kashmir between India and Pakistan.
But an Indian military spokeswoman, Capt. Neha Goyal, told CNN Pakistani troops crossed the Line of Control and "started firing on our patrol," killing an Indian soldier.
"Our troops also retaliated and the Pakistan army troopers ran back," she said.
Abbas said "further action should be taken" following Tuesday's "flag meeting," but did not elaborate. The meeting took place along the Line of Control.
Reports in India's media said four Pakistani soldiers were killed, but Pakistan's military "strongly denied the report of any (casualties) on the Pakistani side."
Pakistan's military also denied its forces crossed the Line of Control, saying the skirmish started when Indian soldiers tried to establish a forward post on Pakistan's side of the line.
"On Pakistan's' objection, Indian troops opened indiscriminate and unprovoked fire," a Pakistan military news release, posted on Monday, stated.
"The Indian fire was immediately responded to. The firing continued -- intermittently during the whole night."
Pakistan said the Indian soldiers "were forced to flee from the area leaving behind their weapons" after the firefight.
Indian and Pakistani forces have exchanged periodic gunfire since May, but Monday's clashes appear to be a serious setback to the ongoing peace process between the two nations.
India and Pakistan had announced a bilateral cease-fire all along their borders in November 2003 and the cease-fire had been holding on the borders until recently.
Kashmir has been at the root of two wars between India and Pakistan, both of which tested nuclear weapons in 1998.
An 18-year separatist campaign in the Indian-controlled portion of the largely Muslim territory has claimed more than 43,000 lives, according to government officials, although human rights groups and nongovernmental organizations put the toll at twice that number.
India has long accused Pakistan of supporting the separatists in Kashmir, a charge Pakistan denies. India blamed militants from Pakistan for a suicide car bombing outside its embassy in Afghanistan that killed 58 people on July 7.
A December 2001 attack on India's parliament that India blamed on the militants brought the two nations to the brink of another war, but they have expanded economic and cultural ties since the November 2003 cease-fire agreement.
-- CNN's Aliza Kassim in Atlanta and Mukhtar Ahmad in Srinagar contributed to this report
