A man named as a suspect in the fatal shooting of a Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, police officer last week was captured at a shelter in Miami, Florida, on Tuesday, Philadelphia Police Commissioner Sylvester Johnson said at a news conference.
Miami Police Chief John Timoney said he had been alerted by Philadelphia police that the suspect, John Lewis, had taken a Miami-bound bus from Philadelphia.
Acting on information from Miami Rescue Mission, officers went to a homeless shelter where they found Lewis, "who was pretty easy to spot as he's 6 feet, 270 pounds," Timoney said.
He was apprehended "unarmed and without incident," the Miami chief said.
Timoney said it didn't appear that anyone in Miami was helping Lewis, according to CNN affiliate WPVI.
Miami Police Officer Gil Gonzalez said Lewis "had a Bible and was praying when we went to get him. He had a look of guilt, a look of shock."
Philadelphia Mayor John F. Street said people at the shelter recognized Lewis from televised photos of the suspect.
Lewis is suspected in the October 31 shooting of Philadelphia Police Officer Chuck Cassidy.
Cassidy was shot in the head when he inadvertently walked into a robbery in progress at a Dunkin' Donuts. He died the next day.
Investigators told WPVI that Lewis was spotted on security video boarding a bus to Miami on Saturday night.
Cassidy was one of three Philadelphia police officers shot in a four-day period last week.
Mariano Santiago was shot in the shoulder late last Tuesday as he approached a vehicle. He is in fair condition.
Officer Sandra VanHinkle was shot early last Sunday and is out of the hospital and doing well, police say.
Former co-workers of Lewis who spoke to WPVI said they were surprised by the allegations against him.
"He was so nice," Kiani Clark told the station. "He was really nice. He didn't seem like the type that would hurt a fly."
The Associated Press reported that Lewis had been arrested in 2005 on drug charges, which were withdrawn after he completed a treatment program.  He was arrested again in June on drug charges, and that case is still pending, the AP reported. E-mail to a friend
CNN's Aurore Ankarcrona contributed to this report.
Copyright 2007 CNN. All rights reserved.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press contributed to this report.
