Texas Gov. Rick Perry said in an interview released Wednesday that he was "a bit arrogant" when he launched his ultimately failed bid for president in 2011, but that after spending nearly two years "in preparation" for another, he feels "substantially more prepared to run."
Perry told The Washington Post that he may have drawn undue confidence because of his experience as governor of an expansive and economically influential state.
During a sit-down at the Republican Governors' Association meeting in Florida, he said that experience made him feel he could "step into that role of candidate and stand up in front of the American people."
"I was mistaken," Perry admitted.
The Republican governor entered the 2012 presidential race to high expectations and great fanfare in late 2011, quickly rising to the top of the polls before plummeting to the bottom after a series of gaffes and missteps derailed his bid.
Perhaps the most infamous -- his declaration of "oops" when he forgot the final federal agency he'd nix if he became president -- continues to dog him as he contemplates another bid. Perry acknowledged the fact that his 2012 failures will shadow his political future, but he said he believes Americans would give him another chance if he decides to run again.
"It's never going to go away," he said of his failed bid. "It's always there, just as Bill Clinton's 1988 [long-winded Democratic] convention speech is always there. It's always part of your past. I'm a big believer that Americans ... are interested in how do you perform after you've been knocked down."
But he was satisfied with how his 14-year tenure as governor of Texas had turned out, as Texas continues to boast a strong economy, he said. Perry also expressed pride in Texas' transformation from "an intellectual and cultural backwater to a place that is very much on everyone's radar screen on where would be a good place for us to either relocate or expand."
The governor said that experience would be part of his main pitch as he runs again, something he said Americans won't find in "another relatively young, inexperienced United States senator or a congressman for that matter."
Perry, if he does run, will likely face a wide array of challengers for the GOP nomination, many of them members of the U.S. House or Senate.
And he said he'd perform much better in a second presidential campaign after spending "the last 22 months in preparation."
"I'm comfortable I'm substantially more prepared to run for the presidency," he said. "I know the challenges. And so, again, I'm not ready to pull the trigger and say I'm in, but I'm comfortable that the process I've put in place here is a proper, timely and thoughtful process."
"The decision [about running] may be no, but it will not be a no because I'm not prepared," he added.
Those preparations have included multiple trips abroad and chats with policy experts, including former secretaries of state Henry Kissinger and George Shultz. And he's become a more outspoken critic of President Barack Obama on immigration in recent months, framing his own experience governing a border state as a competent alternative to Obama's handling of the nation's immigration problems.
On Wednesday, he told the Post that the President's expected executive order delaying deportations of thousands of illegal immigrants is "unconstitutional" and "unlawful."
"It is bad public policy, and the American people are not for it," Perry added, calling on Congress to send various immigration reform measures to Obama's desk to put him on record explaining his opposition to any such reforms.
But he framed himself as a pragmatist against the more conservative voices in the GOP calling for the President's impeachment over the executive order.
"No," he said, asked about whether impeachment should be on the table for the GOP in the party's response. "I think the American people want to see government work. ... I don't think the vast majority of people see impeachment as government working. That is a last ditch effort to stick a finger in the eye of the President."
