Five goals from Dimitar Berbatov helped Manchester United move to the top of the English Premier League on Saturday as Alex Ferguson's team thrashed Blackburn Rovers 7-1 at Old Trafford.
The home side were 3-0 up within half-an-hour thanks to two goals from Berbatov and one from Ji-Sung Park.
Berbatov completed his hat-trick two minutes after the restart and it was Nani's turn two minutes after that, as United went 5-0 up before 50 minutes were on the clock.
The Bulgarian striker bagged his fourth in the 62nd minute and eight minutes later fired home an incredible fifth to complete a stunning individual performance.
Blackburn did manage a late consolation goal courtesy of Christopher Samba but it couldn't disguise a woeful display from Sam Allardyce's team.
Arsenal returned to winning ways after their shock midweek 0-2 defeat to Braga in the Champions League.
The Gunners move up to second place in the table -- ahead of Chelsea who play on Sunday -- after a 4-2 victory away to Aston Villa.
Andrey Arshavin opened the scoring after 39 minutes before Samir Nasri doubled the lead six minutes later with a well taken volley.
A Ciaran Clark goal early in the second half gave the home fans hope that a comeback could be mounted, but Marouane Chamakh poked a shot past Brad Friedel minutes later to restore Arsenal's two goal cushion.
Villa halved the deficit once more with 20 minutes to go as Clark scored his second of the match. But Jack Wiltshire made sure of all three points when he headed home in injury time.
Manchester City could only manage a point away to Stoke City as they drew 1-1 at the Britannia Stadium.
The game looked as though it would end goalless until Micah Richards popped up in the 81st minute to give City the lead. But Stoke's push for an equalizer finally paid off when Matthew Etherington scored in the second minute of added time.
Fifth-placed Bolton Wanderers were lucky to get a point in a 2-2 draw against Blackpool at the Reebok Stadium.
A 76th minute strike from Martin Petrov and another from England striker Kevin Davies in the 89th minute cancelled out Blackpool's two goals scored by Ian Evatt and Like Varney in either half.
Everton's difficulties continued as they were thumped 4-1 at Goodison Park by West Bromwich Albion.
The Baggies took the lead after 16 minutes thanks to a Paul Scharner header and Chris Brunt doubled their lead 10 minutes later with a well-struck free-kick.
Tim Cahill's header gave Everton hope before the break but Mikel Arteta sending off for a stamp on Chilean defender Gonzalo Jara made Everton's task almost impossible. West Brom duly made the extra man pay with a goal from Somen Tchoyi.
Youssouf Mulumbu -- who was later sent off for a second bookable offence -- added a fourth to move Roberto Di Matteo's side up to 11th in the table.
West Ham overcame fellow strugglers Wigan 3-1 at Upton Park.
Midfielder Valon Behrami opened the scoring for the Hammers after 34 minutes, and goals from Victor Obinna and Scott Parker in the second half sealed the points. Tom Cleverley scored a consolation goal for the visitors four minutes from time.
The win means West Ham are now level on points with Wolves who completed a memorable comeback as they beat Sunderland 3-2 at Molineux.
Kevin Foley opened the scoring for Mick McCarthy's men after 50 minutes, before Sunderland hit back with two goals from striker's Darren Bent and Danny Welbeck.
But back came Wolves with goals from Stephen Hunt in the 81st minute followed by Sylvan Ebanks-Blake who scored the winner a minute before the end.
Fulham and Birmingham played out a 1-1 draw at Craven Cottage. Sebastian Larsson gave the visitors the lead after 20 minutes, but Clint Dempsey grabbed a point for Mark Hughes's team with a 53rd minute strike.
