Actor Charlie Sheen, fired from his hit comedy series, has filed a $100 million lawsuit against Warner Bros. Television and Chuck Lorre, the creator of "Two and a Half Men," a Los Angeles Superior Court spokeswoman said Thursday.
The lawsuit, which also seeks punitive damages and recovery of unpaid wages, claims intentional interference with contractual relations and breach of contract, among other contentions.
In addition to Sheen, 9th Step Productions -- a corporation formed by Sheen to contract out his acting services on the series -- also is a plaintiff in the lawsuit.
Warner Bros. Television fired Sheen on Monday after he had gone on a two-week public rant against the show's producers.
Howard Weitzman, Lorre's attorney, called the allegations "as recklessly false and unwarranted as Mr. Sheen's rantings in the media.
"These accusations are simply imaginary," Weitzman said in a statement. "This lawsuit is about a fantasy 'lottery' pay-day for Charlie Sheen. Chuck Lorre's concern has been and continues to be about Mr. Sheen's health."
Warner Bros. had no comment Thursday.
Sheen, 45, has been known for his highly publicized marital, legal and substance abuse problems as much as his acting.
"Two and a Half Men" was put on hiatus after Sheen entered a rehabilitation program in January, and production was halted after he blasted Lorre and Alcoholics Anonymous in a February 24 radio interview.
Sheen said he is pursuing claims for the entire cast and crew to be paid for the balance of the season's 24 episodes.
In his lawsuit, the actor claims Lorre "believes himself to be so wealthy and powerful that he can unilaterally decide to take money away from the dedicated cast and crew ... in order to serve his own ego and self-interest." It claims Lorre made Sheen "the scapegoat for Lorre's own conduct."
Lorre and Warner Bros. generated more than $1 billion from his work, Sheen states. Warner Bros. capitulated to Lorre's desire to punish Sheen for critical remarks about the show's creator, the lawsuit states. Sheen contends he went on the radio only after years of Lorre disparaging him.
It also claims Lorre stands to make more money on his other shows, including "The Big Bang Theory," and wanted to make those programs flourish at the expense of "Two and a Half Men" and because of personal animus toward Sheen.
The lawsuit claims Lorre and Warner Bros. conspired to conjure up a pretext to end the series and fire the actor, "to make him their scapegoat despite the fact that Mr. Sheen was sober, and was ready, willing and able to perform."
Despite stopping production on the sitcom, Warner Bros. Television said last week it will pay the show's crew for the four episodes initially set to begin production this week.
In interviews, Sheen threatened to sue CBS for shutting down the show, demanded a raise from $2 million to $3 million per episode and insisted he was "clean, focused and ready to get back to work."
"I feel more alive, I feel more focused, I feel more energetic," Sheen said on CNN's "Piers Morgan Tonight" last week. "I'm on a quest to claim absolute victory on every front."
In a tweet after the lawsuit was filed, Sheen wrote, "Torpedo away ... You corporate Trolls were warned. And now you've been served!"
Warner Bros. Television is owned by Time Warner Inc., the parent company of CNN.
CNN's Brittany Kaplan contributed to this report.
