If Hillary Clinton runs for president in 2016, Bill Clinton will be her closest political adviser and confidant.
So when the former President laid out a detailed Democratic platform after being asked how he would advise a presidential candidate, the connection to Hillary Clinton's possible presidential run was not far from anyone's mind, including Bill Clinton's.
"Let's assume that you are advising a presidential candidate," Charlie Rose said in an interview that was taped Monday at the Clinton Global Initiative meeting in New York. "That's a heavy assumption," Bill Clinton said with a laugh. "My advice has sometimes been welcome, sometimes not. Sometimes right and sometimes not."
Clinton said that in presidential campaigns, "the past is relevant insofar as it's an indication of what might happen in the future," but he was clear to say that "by and large, almost all elections are about the future."
Here are, according to Bill Clinton, the forward-looking policies a presidential candidate, and possibly a president, will have to focus on:
Economic growth:
"Well first on the home front, we need a table plan that has the prospect of restoring more rapid growth that actually generates jobs and raises incomes and gives poor people a chance to work their way from poverty into the middle class. I think that's really important. The most likely way to do that is flowing investments into areas that we know will create a lot of jobs and that simultaneously will change the job mix."
Energy and infrastructure investment:
"A much more vigorous orientation toward the future, that is making future-related investments like a modern electrical grid."
"I think the most reasonable, easy, low-hanging fruit targets are a revived effort in the energy area and particularly in making all these buildings in America more efficient. And then other kinds of infrastructure."
Health care:
"I think secondly, continuing to work on the health care system is important because the four-year hiatus we've had in health care inflation, we've got to keep it going. I don't care what anybody says; the federal health care law that expanded Medicaid to working people with low incomes and their kids was a big boon."
Education:
"Then you've got to do, you've got to keep working on education and reform the student loan problem and figure out a way to deliver online or in person much more affordable higher education. And we have to erase, totally erase, the difference between technical and academic education."
Reforming the corporate tax rate:
"We should bring the money home. The corporate money that's been lodged overseas can be brought home; the corporations have told us how to do it. Whether we like it or not, this inversion, this is their money. And we are going to have to have a more competitive corporate tax system."
