Rep. Ron Barber, one of the last remaining lawmakers whose reelection fate has yet to be decided, has filed suit in federal court asking for 133 disqualified ballots to be counted as his contest with Republican Martha McSally heads to a recount.
"We are talking about 133 Southern Arizona voters who lived up to their responsibility — they registered to vote and then showed up to vote," Barber attorney Kevin Hamilton said in a statement out Monday. "We are asking the court to ensure that every lawful vote is counted. That's what America is all about."
Barber is trailing McSally, a retired Air Force colonel, by just 161 votes, a margin slim enough to trigger a recount when the votes are certified by the secretary of State, which is expected Dec. 1.
But his campaign has been working feverishly over the past few weeks to find and gather evidence of ballots they say were illegitimately thrown out.
They submitted with the lawsuit sworn affidavits from the voters in question outlining the issues they faced trying to cast their ballots. The reasons their votes were discarded range from signatures not lining up with their registrations to election officials failing to direct voters to their proper polling places.
Barber's campaign tried unsuccessfully last week to delay the canvass of votes in the two counties that make up the district, Pima and Cochise, hoping to buy time to continue to root out other votes that may have been wrongfully discarded.
But with the campaign's requests denied, Barber's options for ensuring those 133 ballots are included in the final count have narrowed.
His lawsuit is seeking a restraining order to prevent the secretary of State from certifying the election results until the ballots in question have been counted.
Barber holds the seat once held by his former boss Democrat Gabrielle Giffords.
McSally, meanwhile, is continuing with business as though representative-elect. She spent last week in Washington D.C. at freshman orientation with other newly elected lawmakers from across the nation.
