Queen Elizabeth II has never lost her love of horses.
Throughout her 62-year reign, the equestrian life has offered the Queen a sport, a passion and a means to temporarily escape her many royal duties.
The Queen's cousin, Margaret Rhodes, called it "another world" in a 2013 BBC documentary.
"With horses ... it reduces you to just the person in relation to the animal, and you're not a Queen, you're just a human being," she said.
Now, the Queen has been honored with the inaugural lifetime achievement award from the world governing body of horse sport, the International Equestrian Federation (FEI).
In a meeting of monarchies, FEI leader Princess Haya of Jordan presented the Queen with the award at a ceremony in Buckingham Palace on Wednesday -- watched on by a former FEI president in the Duke of Edinburgh, Prince Phillip.
"She is a true horsewoman," said Princess Haya. "She still rides whenever state business allows, and her knowledge of breeding and bloodlines is incredible.
"The bond between the Queen and horses is truly extraordinary and I can't think of anyone more fitting to receive this very special award."
The Queen was only three years old when she had her first riding lesson at the palace in 1930. For her fourth birthday, she received a Shetland pony named Peggy from her grandfather, King George V.
Throughout the 1970s and 80s, she could be seen riding a mare named Burmese at the Trooping the Color ceremony to mark her official birthday.
Burmese, a gift from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, attended the ceremony with the Queen for 18 years before the mare retired in 1986. A statue of Burmese now stands in Regina, Canada.
In equestrian circles, the Queen is best-known for her role as a leading British breeder of world-class racehorses.
Earlier this year, top trainer Andrew Balding told CNN the Queen was "probably the best-informed owner in the country".
In June last year, the Queen won the Cheltenham Gold Cup with Estimate, a four-year-old filly ridden by Ryan Moore and trained by Michael Stoute.
In all, horses bred by the Queen have more than 1,600 victories to their name.
Nor is she the only Royal to have tasted equestrian success.
The Duke of Edinburgh dabbled in carriage driving and played polo -- as have Princes Charles, William and Harry -- alongside his 22 years as FEI president.
And the Queen's granddaughter, Zara Phillips, won a world title in eventing in 2006, alongside an Olympic silver medal as part of the British eventing team at the London Olympics in 2012.
Phillips was emulating Princess Anne, her mother, who won European eventing gold in 1971 and competed at the Montreal 1976 Olympics.
"The Queen has an incredible in-depth knowledge of breeding," said British Equestrian Federation chairman Keith Taylor, who attended Wednesday's ceremony.
"It's impossible to think of the Royal Family without thinking of horses. We are truly blessed to have a sovereign who values the horse and its many types so highly."
