BAGHDAD, Iraq (CNN)  -- An Iraqi report on last month's shootings involving security contractor Blackwater USA called the incident "pre-meditated murder" and is calling for $8 million in compensation for each of the 17 Iraqis who died, a senior Iraqi government official said Monday.
Lawyer Hassan Jabbar lies in a hospital after being injured in a shooting involving Blackwater contractors.
The results of the Iraqi investigation into the shootings is complete and will be presented to Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's government for review, the official said.
The report calls for the payments to go to the families of each of those killed in the shootings, he said.
Iraqi government spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh said Sunday that the Iraqi commission investigating the shootings has accused the company's guards of firing indiscriminately and without provocation on citizens and violating the rights of Iraqis.
Blackwater said its contractors "acted lawfully and appropriately in response to a hostile attack," and "the civilians reportedly fired upon by Blackwater professionals were, in fact, armed enemies, and Blackwater personnel returned defensive fire."
The September 16 shooting also left 27 other people wounded, al-Dabbagh said.
Seven vehicles were also destroyed in the incident, which occurred around Nusoor Square in western Baghdad.
Al-Dabbagh said the commission, formed September 22, determined there was no evidence the Blackwater convoy was under direct or indirect fire.
"Not even a stone was thrown at them," al-Dabbagh said.
He added the contractors violated the rules of conduct and regulations for private security firms operating in Iraq.
"They must be held accountable according to the law," he said.
However, security contractors have immunity from Iraqi law under a provision put into place in the early days of the U.S.-led occupation.  Watch how supervision has been tightened on contractors »
Blackwater security contractors were guarding a State Department convoy. The company is one of a number of private security contractors in Iraq.
Last month's shooting has sparked fury in both countries and led to a series of new steps reviewing the role of U.S. contractors in Iraq.
The Iraqi-American joint committee met for the first time Sunday to begin reviewing security operations. It plans to issue a report offering recommendations to the Iraqi and U.S. governments.
Border crossings reopen
Five border crossings between Iran and Iraq's Kurdish region have been reopened, an Iraqi Kurdish regional government spokesman said.
Iran closed its border with the Iraqi region nearly two weeks ago to protest the U.S. military's incarceration of an Iranian arrested September 20 in Sulaimaniya.
The U.S. military maintains that Mahmoud Farhadi was posing as a businessman with a trade delegation and was in charge of Zafar Command, one of three units of the Ramazan Corps of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps' Quds Force.
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani blasted the United States for the arrest, saying Farhadi is an Iranian civil servant who was on an official trade mission in the region.
The U.S. military has long accused Quds Force agents of training and equipping Iraqi insurgents, an allegation Iran vehemently denies.
Other developments
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh contributed to this report.
