Neil Patrick Harris won't have to wait for it -- a Tony nomination, that is.
Harris, Bryan Cranston, Tony Shalhoub and Tyne Daly are among the familiar names who received nods for the highest honor of the Broadway stage. The nominations for the 2014 Tony Awards were announced Tuesday morning.
Harris earned a nomination for his performance in "Hedwig and the Angry Inch," which received eight nominations -- second only to "A Gentleman's Guide to Love & Murder," which received 10. Among them is a pick for best revival of a musical for the show itself.
Neil Patrick Harris, as Hedwig, curses at fan
Cranston was nominated for his performance as President Lyndon Johnson in Robert Schenkkan's "All the Way." It was one of just two nominations the play received, but the other was also big: best play.
Bryan Cranston, man of the moment
Shalhoub was nominated for "Act One," and Daly was nominated for "Mothers and Sons."
Not all well-known names came off as well. The musical version of Woody Allen's film "Bullets Over Broadway" received six nominations but was ignored for best musical, though Allen himself earned a nomination for best book (script) of the show. The Oscar-winning movie "Rocky," which was also turned into a musical, received four nominations, but its biggest pick was for best actor in a musical, for Andy Karl's performance as Rocky Balboa.
The nominees for best musical are "After Midnight," "Aladdin" (an adaptation of the 1992 Disney film), "Beautiful -- The Carole King Musical" and "A Gentleman's Guide to Love & Murder." "Aladdin," "Beautiful" and "Gentleman's Guide" also earned nominations for best book; "Aladdin" and "Gentleman's Guide" are both up for original score as well.
"Gentleman's Guide" is a musical version of the 1949 Alec Guinness comedy "Kind Hearts and Coronets." Like Guinness, star Jefferson Mays plays multiple roles. He's had experience: Mays won a Tony for playing several roles in the 2003 play "I Am My Own Wife."
The nominees for best play are James Lapine's "Act One," based on the Moss Hart memoir; Schenkkan's "All the Way"; Harvey Fierstein's "Casa Valentina"; Terrence McNally's "Mothers and Sons"; and John Patrick Shanley's "Outside Mullingar."
The nominees for best revival of a play are "The Cripple of Inishmaan," "The Glass Menagerie," "A Raisin in the Sun" and "Twelfth Night."
"Raisin" and "Twelfth Night" were among those on top of the acting nominations, with LaTanya Richardson Jackson, Sophie Okonedo and Anika Noni Rose earning nods for "Raisin" and Samuel Barnett, Paul Chahidi, Stephen Fry and Mark Rylance doing so for Shakespeare's comedy.
Notable by their absences: Denzel Washington, who plays the lead role in "Raisin"; Daniel Radcliffe, one of the stars of "Inishmaan"; Zachary Quinto, whose performance in "Menagerie" was overlooked; and pals Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellen, whose rotating bill of "Waiting for Godot" and "No Man's Land" was completely ignored.
And, The New York Times observed, the biggest box-office hit of the season, the revival of Harold Pinter's "Betrayal" starring real-life couple Daniel Craig and Rachel Weisz, was also shut out.
However, fans of "Frozen" can rejoice: That film's great singing star, Idina Menzel, was nominated for lead actress in a musical for "If/Then." "Let It Go"? Hardly.
The 2014 Tony Awards, presented by The Broadway League and the American Theatre Wing, are scheduled for Sunday, June 8, on CBS. Hugh Jackman will host.
