New striker Gervinho was sent off on his Premier League debut as Arsenal drew 0-0 against Newcastle United at St James Park in their opening match of the season on Saturday.
It was unedifying end to a difficult week for Gunners' fans who appear to be on the brink of losing star midfielder Cesc Fabregas to Barcelona and Samir Nasri to the blue side of Manchester.
Fabregas expected to join Barcelona
Arsenal dominated possession with little to show for their efforts as Newcastle defended stoutly.
And the home side's cause was helped no end by the Ivorian striker who was given his marching orders in the 76th minute after he slapped Newcastle's Joey Barton during an altercation in the penalty area.
Liverpool's new summer signings couldn't fashion a win at Anfield as they drew 1-1 with Sunderland.
Luis Suarez opened the scoring with a header in the 12th minute, making amends for a penalty he missed in the third minute after Sunderland midfielder Kieron Richardson had brought down the Uruguayan striker.
New midfielder's Stewart Downing, Charlie Adam and Jordan Henderson all started for Liverpool, as did new defender Jose Enrique, but after a bright first half the Reds faded.
Sunderland's stubborn collective defensive effort in the second half was rewarded with a moment of individual brilliance when Swedish international Sebastian Larsson equalized with a spectacular volley in the 57th minute.
"Sunderland made it difficult for us, they worked really hard and I think they deserved a point," Liverpool's manager, Kenny Dalglish said afterwards, AFP reported.
Bolton Wanderers were one of only two teams to manage a win on the opening day of the new season, thumping newly-promoted Queens Park Rangers 4-0 at Loftus Road.
Gary Cahill opened the scoring in first-half injury time with a curling effort from 25 yards.
QPR defender Danny Gabbidon then handed Bolton a 2-0 lead when he deflected a Chris Eagles' free-kick into his own net.
Croatian striker Ivan Klasnic added a third with 20 minutes remaining before Fabrice Muamba completed the rout of the west Londoners.
Wolverhampton Wanderers were the other winners on Saturday as they came from behind to beat Blackburn Rovers 2-1 at Ewood Park.
Blackburn debutant Mauro Formica gave the home side the lead after 20 minutes only to see Steven Fletcher level the scores two minutes later.
Wolves were ahead shortly after the break when Stephen Ward volleyed home from close range after Irish striker Kevin Doyle had his penalty saved by Blackburn's 'keeper Paul Robinson.
New boys Norwich City fared better in their first Premier League outing claiming a creditable 1-1 draw at Wigan.
Ben Watson slotted home a penalty in the 21st minute (after Ritchie de Laet felled Franco di Santo) to give the home side the lead.
But Norwich fought their way back into the match and were rewarded when Wes Hoolahan pounced on a mistake Wigan keeper Ali Al Habsi to equalize moments before halftime.
Fulham and Aston Villa played out a goalless draw at Craven Cottage.
Champions Manchester United kick off their campaign on Sunday when they travel to West Bromwich Albion, while Chelsea are away to Stoke City.
Roberto Mancini's Manchester City host newly-promoted Swansea City on Monday.
