Its all change for the world's top sporting event -- the Olympic Games.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has made 40 new recommendations in an attempt to make hosting the Games more affordable.
The 2014 Winter Games cost Russia an estimated $50 billion and IOC members believe such an exorbitant cost has put off potential future bidders.
In September, Norway withdrew its candidature to host the 2022 Winter Olympics, while Stockholm, Krakow and Lviv also pulled out of the running.
That left just two cities -- Beijing in China and Kazakhstan's Almaty -- vying to host the 2022 Games.
"We have to look into the future and try to address the challenges which may arise in the future and the challenges we have already now," International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach told reporters.
"We want to show with this procedure that the IOC is opening up, that we are opening a window and we want to have fresh wind coming in,"
According to the new reforms announced on Tuesday, bidding costs will be reduced while there will also be a "significant financial contribution from the IOC."
The new rules will permit the organization of events outside of the host city, as at London 2012, while in exceptional circumstances, even taken outside the host country.
The IOC has also announced that it will include the non-discrimination on sexual orientation in the Olympic charter following the controversy surrounding the Sochi Games and Russia's political laws on homosexuality.
"Over the past year many people have asked me why there is a desire to make changes. After all, they say, the Olympic Games, the IOC, and the Olympic Movement have enjoyed many successes and we are in a very good position," said President Bach.
"My answer is that we are now in the position to drive change ourselves rather than being driven.
"We have to take leadership with Olympic Agenda 2020. We have the opportunity, and we must seize the moment -- now is the time for change."
Also amongst the recommendations are plans to cap the number of athletes and coaches while the IOC wants women to make up 50% of those competing.
A vote on the IOC's proposals will be held at a meeting in Monaco on 8 and 9 December.
Bach has also confirmed that sports will not have to wait seven years to be approved for a place at the Olympics, insisting the IOC can propose new events.
"Now the door is open (for sports). The IOC by itself can also take a decision that we are adding this or that event," Bach said.
"It only has to happen before the city is elected so that candidates know what they have to deal with. Any changes after can happen in agreement with the host city."
The Tokyo Games, which will be held in 2020, is pushing for the inclusion of baseball and softball following their exclusion from the 2008.
The next Winter Games takes place in Pyeongchang, South Korea, in 2018, while Rio de Janeiro will host the Summer Olympics in two years time.
