(CNN)  -- Darren Tuck, the man who gave police a tape depicting the rape of a 3-year-old girl, turned himself in Sunday to Nye County, Nevada, authorities.
Darren Tuck turned himself in to authorities Sunday. He earlier gave police the tape of the girl.
Tuck had recently given police the videotape, saying he found it in the desert, Sheriff Tony De Meo said.
Police said he had the tape for at least five months before turning it in.
He was being sought on a parole violation for failure to pay child support, but police -- who have said they want to question him further -- had been unable to locate him.
Tuck, of Nevada, allegedly showed the tape to others, and faces between 10 years to life in prison for exhibiting pornography and one to six years for possession of child pornography, said De Meo.
Tuck's attorney Harry Kuehn said last week on CNN's "Nancy Grace" that Tuck had been "wracked by indecision" as to what to do with the tape once he realized what it was.
"You have to consider what kind of concerns my client had," the attorney said. "He's previously dealt with the sheriff's office in Nye County; it was previously unsatisfactory."
The four-year-old videotape shows the 3-year-old girl being raped in Las Vegas, Nevada. Last week, she was found safe.
Now seven, the girl was found Friday with family in Las Vegas after thousands of tips poured in to police, thanks to an appeal by police to the news media to show the girl's picture.
CNN and other news organizations did so until the child was found, and De Meo asked media to stop showing the picture.
"The mother has cooperated with us," De Meo said. "We believe that the mother was not aware of anything that went on with this young girl. It was very sad for her to find this out."
Authorities have identified Chester A. Stiles, 37, as the suspect in the tape. A  resident of Pahrump, Nevada, he remains at-large, De Meo said. Pahrump is about 60 miles west of Las Vegas.
Stiles was a distant friend of the girl's family, De Meo said.
Someone close to Stiles told investigators Stiles is a "survivalist type" and always carries a weapon, Nye County District Attorney Bob Beckett said.
Todd Allen, a Las Vegas resident, told CNN he once lived with the girl from the video and her mother. He said he recognizes his old apartment from scenes in the video. He said he knows the suspect because Allen's mother dated Stiles and the couple spent time together at Allen's apartment.  Watch Allen describe Stiles and the girl »
Allen said nobody realized the child had been abused.
"She's what you'd expect a little girl in elementary school to be like," he said. "You would never know something like that happened. Ever."
Allen said he never witnessed Stiles physically assault anyone.
"But I have seen him verbally and mentally assault many people," Allen told CNN. "He's good with mind games. He's good at twisting people's realities and manipulating people."
De Meo addressed Stiles directly on Saturday: "Turn yourself in to your local law enforcement agency," he said. "Understand this: Law enforcement not only has a long arm, but a long memory. You will not be forgotten by members of this agency or any other law enforcement agency."
The FBI is also seeking Stiles on state charges of sexual assault and lewdness with a minor under the age of 14 in a separate matter, De Meo said.  E-mail to a friend
