The lights went out on Real Madrid's hopes of closing the gap on Barcelona after its game at Rayo Vallecano was postponed amid reports of electrical cables being cut.
Real had hoped to make up some ground on league leaders Barca having made its worst start to a league season in 11 years.
Jose Mourinho's team is eight points off the pace after just one win in its first four games.
Real Madrid slump to defeat at Sevilla
But Rayo's president Raul Martin Presa revealed that cables had been cut and that play would not be possible.
"Vandals have cut cables, we have tried to solve the problem as quickly as possible but told the stewards not to open the doors of the stadium.
"We will leave it to the police to find out who is responsible."
Club officials are hoping to play the game on Monday.
Real Mallorca continued its stunning to the season with a 2-0 win over Valencia.
Victor Casadesus fired the home side ahead before Javier Arizmendi sealed the points ten minutes after the break.
Atletico Madrid made it five straight wins following a 2-1 victory over Real Valladolid at Vicente Calderon.
Diego Godin put Atletico ahead on the half-hour with Radamel Falcao's 44th minute penalty giving the hosts a two-goal cushion.
Valladolid got a goal back when Alberto Bueno's weak effort was fumbled into the net by Atletico keeper Thibaut Courtois.
Former Newcastle striker Obafemi Martins scored a late winner as Levante snatched a 2-1 win against Real Sociedad.
David Zurutuza had given Sociedad the lead but Jose Barkero leveled things up for Levante.
And with the game seemingly heading for a draw, Martins capped his substitute appearance with the winning goal.
Malaga's malady: When foreign ownership goes wrong
Malaga remain unbeaten after being held to a goalless draw at Athletic Bilbao.
In the German Bundesliga, Andre Schurrle missed from the penalty spot as Bayer Leverkusen was forced to settle for a 1-1 draw at home to Borussia Monchengladbach.
Patrick Hermann's early strike gave the visitors the lead but Michal Kadlec leveled soon after.
Schurrle had a golden opportunity to win it from 12-yards but failed to find net as Bayer were left thinking of what might have been.
Hoffeinheim claimed its first win of the league season and climbed off the foot of the table following a 3-1 win against previously unbeaten Hannover.
After falling behind to an own-goal from Mathieu Delpierre, Hoffenheim hit back thanks to goals from Fabian Johnson, Sejad Salihovic and Daniel Williams.
Werder Bremen was held to a 2-2 draw by Stuttgart with both teams finishing the contest with 10-men.
Kevin de Bruyne and Zlatko Junuzovic gave Bremen a two-goal lead before Martin Harnik and Cacau brought the visitors level.
Harnik was shown a yellow card late on with Assani Lukimya seeing red for Bremen.
In France, Marseille continued its 100% start to the Ligue 1 season with a hard-fought 1-0 win over Evian at the Stade Velodrome.
Barton's English ban to apply in France
Morgan Amalfitano netted the game's only goal 12 minutes from time to extend OM's winning run to six matches.
Lisandro Lopez netted an 80th minute equalizer as Lyon stretched its unbeaten run to six league games with a 1-1 draw at Lille.
Chahir Belghazouani grabbed a late leveler as Ajaccio recorded a 2-2 draw at Bordeaux.
Henrique had given Ajaccio the lead before Yoan Gouffran and Ricardo Faty put the hosts 2-1 ahead.
But Belghazouani's late strike meant the shares were spoiled.
