Rafael Van der Vaart's dramatic deadline day transfer to Tottenham has finally been rubber stamped by the English Premier League.
The Dutch international joins from Real Madrid after a technical hitch meant Spurs struggled to submit the relevant paperwork shortly before Tuesday's English transfer deadline, but the Premier League have now ratified the move.
Van der Vaart, who was part of the Dutch side that lost in the World Cup final to Spain, joins the London club for a fee believed to be in the region of $12 million.
"The interest from Tottenham came very quick and I did not have much time to think," Van der Vaart was quoted as saying on the Premier League's official website.
"But I want to play football again and if possible every week, with a beautiful club. I'm totally happy. I am excited about playing in England.
"Whether it suits my style remains to be seen, but I think a good footballer can adapt and I am very proud of this transfer."
Both clubs confirmed the deal, with Real Madrid refuting a claim from Tottenham's manager Harry Redknapp that Van der Vaart had been the subject of a $26 million bid from German champions Bayern Munich.
Real's sports director Miguel Pardeza told the club's official website: "It is absolutely false that Real Madrid received a 21 million euro offer from Bayern Munich for Van der Vaart.
"In fact, the German team never showed an interest to sign the player, so the allegations made in England have greatly surprised us."
A statement on Tottenham's official website read: "We are delighted to announce that we have reached agreement with Real Madrid for the transfer of Rafael Van der Vaart.
"The Holland international came through the ranks at Ajax and won two league titles during 141 appearances with the Eredivisie side, scoring 60 goals before leaving for Hamburg in the summer of 2005.
"The attacking midfielder, 27, was the Bundesliga side's leading scorer in his first season in Germany and went on to captain the side before joining Real Madrid ahead of the 2007/08 campaign.
"Rafael has been capped by Holland a total of 83 times, scoring 16 goals, since making his international debut against Andorra in 2001 at the age of 18.
"He has since represented the Netherlands at two European Championships and two World Cups, including this summer's tournament in South Africa where he featured five times in the side's run to the final."
