(The Frisky) -- There are plenty of reasons to be excited about the fall. We've got pumpkins, colorful leaves, Halloween, and whatnot. But the hands-down best thing about fall is that this is the season when the "good" movies come out.
Summer and winter might drop the biggest blockbusters, but the autumn flicks carry a different kind of weight. Maybe because the world is shedding its summer skin and the natural drama of nature lends itself to more heady works? Yeah, maybe not. Whatever the reason, there are some fantastic-looking movies coming out this fall. We are counting down the days until these 10 are released.
The Frisky: 10 stars with bad body habits
1. "The Romantics" A group of friends who call themselves "the romantics," because of their tendency to have incestuous relationships, gathers to witness the union of two of their own. Laura (Katie Holmes) is the maid of honor to her friend Lila (Anna Paquin), who is marrying the man they've both loved, Tom (Josh Duhamel). It's Holmes' first role in forever, so you know we'll be there. Comes out September 10.
2. "Never Let Me Go" Based on Kazuo Ishiguro's bestselling novel of the same name, this movie follows three children, Ruth (Keira Knightley), Kathy (Carey Mulligan) and Tommy, as they grow up in an English boarding school and come to terms with the love they feel for each other and the lives that await them. It doesn't sound that interesting when summarized in a sentence, but trust me-the book is incredible. Hits theaters September 15.
The Frisky: 12 celebs who deny getting breast implants despite radical pics
3. "Easy A" I don't think I could be more giddy about Emma Stone's venture into Hester Prynne territory. This flick is based on "The Scarlet Letter"-only the adultery scandal is staged. Why? For money (for her) and popularity (for him). Doesn't this also sound like "Can't Buy Me Love"? Comes out September 17.
4. "Howl" James Franco portrays Beat poet and counter-culture icon Allen Ginsberg during his public obscenity trial and leading up to his most well-known work, "Howl." I shouldn't even have to sell you on this one, since James Franco is the undeniably hot star. Begins showing in cinemas September 24.
The Frisky: 10 famous men who chose their mistresses over their wives
5. "The Social Network" This is the long-awaited tale of how Harvard undergrad and computer programming mastermind Mark Zuckerberg started Facebook and became the youngest billionaire in history. The story is wrought with drama, legal complications, and the looming question of what social networking has done to all of us in general. To which I say, "Bad things." Check it out October 1.
6. "It's Kind of a Funny Story" Craig Gilner (Keir Gilchrist) is a stressed-out 16-year-old who bikes to a mental health clinic one morning and checks himself in, hoping to stop the noise in his head. The youth ward is closed for the day, so he's placed in the adult ward and an unhinged patient named Bobby (Zach Galifianakis) takes him under his wing. Craig falls for another displaced teen, Noelle (Emma Roberts). Craig is stuck in the ward for the minimum five-days stay but accidentally finds what he needs. Cute. Out October 8.
The Frisky: See Kim Kardashian's celebrity twin
7. "Nowhere Boy" Growing up in Liverpool and being fought over by his aunt and mother, John Lennon (Aaron Johnson) dreams of starting a rock band and finds a kindred spirit in a young Paul McCartney. You know how this one ends. Look for it on the big screen October 8.
8. "Due Date" Peter Highman (Robert Downey Jr.) needs to get home in five days, in time for his wife's due date. As he's trying to catch a flight from Atlanta, he runs into aspiring actor Ethan Tremblay (Zach Galifianakis) who forces him to take a cross-country road trip with him. Hilarity ensues. It might just be "The Hangover" with Robert Downey Jr. But isn't that enough? Rolling out November 5.
The Frisky: 6 celebrities who are hoarding
9. "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1" In the first half of the final chapter of the Harry Potter series, Harry (Daniel Radcliffe), Ron (Rupert Grint) and Hermione (Emma Watson) leave Hogwarts and go off on a quest to destroy the Horcruxes, which hold Voldemort's power and immortality. In 3D, no less! Comes out November 19.
10. "Burlesque" Ali (Christina Aguilera) runs off to Los Angeles to become a star. She comes across The Burlesque Lounge and manages to eventually wow the un-wowable proprietor, Tess (Cher), and show's current star (Kristen Bell). It might be a shame to admit, but I couldn't care less about Aguilera and Cher. I just want to see Kristen Bell dance! Hits theaters November 24.
Study says 1 in 4 in love with someone else
TM & © 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
