Authorities in New York's Nassau County are investigating the stabbing of reputed former mob boss John A. "Junior" Gotti, but the victim has not been cooperating with the investigation, according to police.
Aside from telling authorities he was stabbed while in the parking lot of a pharmacy, Gotti didn't say what happened Sunday night, police said Monday
Gotti arrived at a Syosset hospital on Sunday evening at 10 p.m. seeking treatment for a stab wound. Per hospital protocol, the facility notified authorities, and Nassau police responded.
Gotti said he had been stabbed in the parking lot of a CVS store in Syosset at around 9:45 p.m. Sunday. He refused to answer any further questions, according to Nassau police.
"We are investigating, along with the Nassau Police Department, a stabbing that occurred in Syosset, New York on Sunday evening involving John 'Junior' Gotti," said Shams Tarek, communications director for the Nassau County district attorney's office.
The hospital had no one registered under Gotti's name Monday night, and his whereabouts and condition could not be determined.
The 49-year-old Gotti is the son of the late John Joseph Gotti Jr. who was once the boss of the infamous Gambino crime family in New York. The elder Gotti died of cancer in federal prison 11 years ago while he was serving a life sentence for a murder and racketeering conviction.
Junior Gotti has long insisted that he retired from organized crime after pleading guilty in 1999 to racketeering and agreeing to serve five years in prison. He was released in 2005.
He was indicted four times between 2004-2009 on mob-related charges. All four of those trials ended in a mistrial. Federal authorities appeared to give up when in January 2010 they said in court papers: "In light of all the circumstances, the government has decided not to proceed with the prosecution against John A. Gotti."
Gotti's lawyer, Charles Carnesi, did not return calls Monday seeking comment.
Mob week: Why we can't get enough of the gangster life
