The stated purpose for a meeting of pro-Hillary Clinton Democrats in New York on Friday was simple: Recap the last year and discuss 2014 lessons that will apply in 2016's presidential election.
The much-talked about and more interesting purpose, however, was the realization that the pre-campaign that has existed around a likely Clinton candidacy for the better part of two years is soon coming to an end.
In the hallway, ballroom and press briefing room of the Ready for Hillary National Finance Council meeting, dozens of top flight Democrats, many of whom would make up the roster of a Clinton campaign, came together to discuss the future of what appears to be a likely run.
"They are pretty certain," Stephanie Schriock, the president of Emily's List and a possible Clinton campaign manager in 2016, said when asked whether session attendees thought Clinton would run.
Though many of the speakers at the strategy session regularly inserted caveats like "if she runs" or "hypothetically" into conversations with the press, the feeling of nearly everyone in the room was that Clinton is almost certainly running for president and will likely declare early in 2016.
"You can derive that by looking at what she has been doing," said Chris Lehane, the political director of Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign and a longtime Hillary Clinton adviser. "I think she has been doing everything you would do if you were going to give a serious look to running."
Lehane added that the reason many of the Democrats were in a New York City ballroom on Friday was because of those movements by Clinton, who for the last year has headlined high profile speeches, stumped for Democrats across the country and written a much ballyhooed book.
"A lot of people are taking their signals from that," the California-based political consultant said. "That is one of the reasons this gathering is taking place."
But just as certain as the attendees were that Clinton would be running in the near future, many were equally as certain that her campaign would face challenges and would have free reign of the Democratic field.
Democrats openly worried about Clinton's campaign finding a message in a changing political landscape and holding on to a Democratic electorate that was burned by stinging defeats in 2014.
"If 2016 happens with a 2014 electorate, we are not going to be successful," said Mitch Stewart, a senior Ready for Hillary adviser and former Obama campaign aide. "I think the big pitfall for Democrats is we have not yet figured out a message on the economy that resonates with working class voters. ... That is, for me, at least the biggest concern out there."
Strategists from important presidential states like Iowa and New Hampshire also raised concerns about her frontrunner status and their respective states' tendency to gravitate to fringe, dark horse candidates.
"Iowa has a very healthy contrarian spirit. It has a very healthy underdog spirit," said Jerry Crawford, a Clinton organizer in the Hawkeye State who joked that he sometimes has dreams (read: nightmares) of (independent Vermont Sen.) Bernie Sanders toying with a presidential bid. "That is what we have to keep our eye on," he added.
Similar concerns were raised by Terry Shumaker, a longtime Clinton confidant and aide from New Hampshire.
"Inevitability is not a message, it is not something you can run on. And in New Hampshire, we have a long history of (frontrunner) train wrecks," Shumaker said, noting that despite the Clinton's long history with New Hampshire, many young voters don't remember that.
Shumaker, a longtime Clinton supporter who was with Bill Clinton when he filed his presidential bid papers in 1991, added: "As I caution all presidential candidate in New Hampshire, taking New Hampshire for granted is very dangerous. Last time I believe Hillary Clinton had an almost 30-point lead in the polls in our state in the summer and that lead melted like an ice sculpture on the mall in Washington in July."
Clinton went on to win the New Hampshire primary in 2008, but by a slim 3%.
But Clinton supporters were also buoyed on Friday by that fact that the Democratic field has been partially frozen for the last year because of their actions. Prospective candidates like former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley and Sanders have been entertaining bids, and former Virginia Sen. Jim Webb declared this week he was launching an exploratory committee.
But other than that, very few Democrats are lining up to take on Clinton and that was evident in the fact that many Clinton advisers on Friday looked more towards the general election than they did a Democratic primary.
"A tough thematic will be, 'a time for change,' and you can shove a lot under that thematic," said Harold Ickes, a Clinton friend who elevated Ready for Hillary when he signed on as an adviser. "If (the Republicans) put up the right ticket -- and they've been known not to -- but if they put up the right ticket, it could come down to be very, very hotly contested."
Potential Clinton campaign staffers also lined the speakers list and hallways of Friday's event. Guy Cecil, the executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee; Schriock, the president of EMILY's List; and Ace Smith, a political operative who worked for Clinton in 2008, have all been rumored as likely picks for Clinton's top campaign job.
Cecil and Smith avoided the press room altogether but sat on a panel in the closed press main ballroom, while Schriock spoke with reporters but wouldn't entertain questions about her future with a Clinton campaign.
"I'm not going to talk about any conversations I may or may not be having with a candidate who may or may not be running," the women's group leader stated emphatically to reporters.
Not everyone was talking about future jobs, though. Craig Smith, a friend of Bill Clinton from his days in Arkansas, was quite gleeful when he thought about not working on another campaign.
"If she decided to run, and she wants me to do something, I will do what I can," Smith said with a smile. "If she wants me to go to the beach and work on my garden, I will go do that."
