(HLNtv.com) -- "Duck Dynasty" star Phil Robertson is ruffling feathers again, this time for comments he made years ago about how girls should marry when they're still teenagers.
"They got to where they're getting hard to find, mainly because these boys are waiting 'til they get to be about 20 years old before they marry 'em," Robertson says in a video clip that resurfaced Monday. "Look, you wait 'til they get to be 20 years old, the only picking that's going to take place is your pocket. You got to marry these girls when they are about 15 or 16. They'll pick your ducks."
In the video, Robertson is recounting an anecdote at a speaking engagement. He describes the story as "river rat counseling" he was giving to a "boy" of unknown age and -- referring specifically to marrying teenage girls -- also advises the crowd to "check with Mom and Dad about that, of course." Robertson is four years older than his wife, Kay, whom he married when she was 16 years old, according to A&E's website.
The reality show patriarch was speaking at a Georgia Sportsmen Ministry event when he recounted this advice, according to the video's description. The clip was originally posted in 2009 by YouTube user wakemakerducks, which is also the name of Robertson's company. It was posted again to YouTube on Monday.
In the newly resurfaced footage, Robertson also lists other qualities he advised the boy to look for in a future wife.
"Make sure that she can cook a meal. You need to eat some meals that she cooks, check that out. Make sure she carries her Bible. That'll save you a lot of trouble down the road," he said.
The resurfaced footage comes on the heels of controversy caused by comments regarding homosexuality that Robertson, 67, made to GQ magazine this month.
"It seems like, to me, a vagina -- as a man -- would be more desirable than a man's anus," Robertson told GQ when opening up about topics he said he couldn't discuss on the show. "That's just me. I'm just thinking: There's more there! She's got more to offer. I mean, come on, dudes! You know what I'm saying? But hey, sin: It's not logical, my man. It's just not logical."
Robertson went on to explain to the magazine how he thinks that the line between right and wrong has been blurred and that "sin becomes fine." He then expanded on what, in his opinion, is "sinful."
"Start with homosexual behavior and just morph out from there," he said. "Bestiality, sleeping around with this woman and that woman and that woman and those men."
A&E quickly suspended Robertson from filming future episodes of the hit show after he made those comments. Nine days later, the network reversed its decision.
HLN has reached out to the "Duck Dynasty" family for comment but has yet to hear back.
