South Korea's Inbee Park says she will consider it a grand slam if she wins next month's British Open.
A day after becoming the first player since Ben Hogan in 1953 to win the first three majors of the season, Park is not concerned by the presence of five women's majors this year.
"Yes, of course, I think so," Sunday's U.S. Women's Open winner told CNN World Sport when asked if success at the British Open would constitute a grand slam.
"Even though there are five majors, I think winning four is very, very good."
This is the first year in which there will be five majors on the schedule, after the Evian Championship in France was elevated in status.
By winning at the Sebonack course in Southampton by four strokes, the World No. 1 put herself in contention to become the first golfer -- male or female -- to win four major championships in a season.
Having won the Kraft Nabisco Championship in April and the Wegmans LPGA Championship earlier this month, she has already matched the record of the legendary Babe Zaharias, who won three majors in 1950.
When Zaharias achieved her milestone only three majors were on the schedule, while Mickey Wright (1961) and Pat Bradley (1986) are the only other players in LPGA history to win three majors in a season -- but the latter two women failed to achieve consecutive wins.
Park, 24, says she was well aware of the history coming her way as she drove off on Sunday.
"I felt the pressure because I was going for three in a row and everything that was going on was very crazy -- but once I got on the course, I was very calm," she said.
"It's crazy what I've just done. I never would have thought I would have done that ever.
"I am achieving things I never thought I would get, but I am getting there one step at a time. I don't know how far I will go."
Winning a fifth major in the season, with the Evian Championship taking place in September, would represent a milestone in the history of golf.
Although an arguably slim prospect, Park's record in her last 24 starts -- with eight victories coming on top of five runner-up finishes -- suggests she is likely to be in contention at both events.
The Seoul-born golfer won her first major in 2008 at the U.S. Women's Open but had to wait until earlier this year to add that success.
South Koreans have won seven of the last nine major LPGA titles and Park is hopeful she can continue that remarkable run at St Andrews in August.
"I played very well at the British Open in the last couple of years so I am really looking forward to going there," added a woman who turned professional in 2006.
