A third consecutive unblemished round fired Korea's Noh Seung-yul into the lead of the Zurich Classic in New Orleans on Saturday.
The bogey-free feat means Noh is the first player to complete 54 holes at the TPC Louisiana course without dropping a shot.
Noh's third round score of 65 also helped him streak past overnight leader Ben Martin, who carded a 73 to slip four shots back and into a tie for fourth place.
The Korean has been playing with yellow and affixed to his cap as a mark of respect to the victims of the fatal ferry accident in the waters off the south coast of his home country.
Three consecutive birdies from 14 through 16 were the highlight of the round and ensured Noh would end the day leading Keegan Bradley, who now resides two shots back in second place on 16-under-par.
Robert Streb is a further shot adrift in third after recording a third round score of 68.
Fourth-placed Martin had led the event over the first two days after knocking out a course-record 62 on Thursday but the 26-year-old American found the going much tougher after the cut. His sole birdie on Saturday came on the seventh hole.
China Open
Alexander Levy will take a three-shot lead into the final round of the China Open after a 2-under-par round of 70 in difficult conditions at the Genzon Golf Club in Shenzhen Saturday.
The 23-year-old Frenchman built upon the course record 62 he shot on Friday and now sits three clear of second placed Alvaro Quiros of Spain.
Play was made difficult for most of the day due to driving rain and strong winds.
But a 15-foot par-putt at the last ensured Levy, who has never finished higher than third at a European Tour event, ended the day on 16-under.
Elsewhere on the course, Finland's Mikko Ilonen shot a round of 67 to move into third position on 12-under while England's Tommy Fleetwood and Spain's Adrian Otaegui lie a shot further back on 11-under-par.
World number three Henrik Stenson, meanwhile, who could replace Tiger Woods at the top of the rankings with victory this week, is 12 shots back in 21st position after a third round of 71.
