(CNN)Will "Birdman" rule the roost Sunday night?
The film, starring Michael Keaton as a former superhero-playing actor trying to recharge his career with a Broadway play, leads all other films with seven Golden Globe nominations.
The critically acclaimed movie was nominated for best comedy or musical, best actor in a comedy or musical (Keaton), best supporting actor (Edward Norton), best supporting actress (Emma Stone), best director (Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu), as well as best screenplay and best score.
The 72nd Golden Globes is produced by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association and is viewed by many in Hollywood as a good predictor for the Oscars. This year, "Boyhood" and "The Imitation Game" earned five nominations, and Ava DuVernay made history becoming the first African American woman to be nominated for directing for her work on "Selma."
DuVernay's film joins "Boyhood," "Foxcatcher," "The Imitation Game" and "The Theory of Everything" in being nominated for best drama.
Actress Jennifer Aniston has been having a moment and stirring a great deal of buzz with her performance as a woman who becomes obsessed with the suicide of a member of her chronic pain support group. Aniston is nominated for a best dramatic actress Golden Globe and told the Los Angeles Times she's happy to be getting noticed for her performance, rather than the usual paparazzi driven attention paid to her personal life.
"To be having a conversation about my work, as opposed to the other BS, is really so refreshing," she said. "I feel like a plant that's just been starving for nourishment. I needed a good rain."
Among the television categories, "Fargo" led all nominees with five nominations, followed by "True Detective" which had four and "Jane the Virgin," which received two.
Tina Fey and Amy Poehler will once again host this year's awards show. Fey told E! that she and her bestie are going to take advantage of being in the final year of their three-year Globes contract to push the envelope with their humor.
"Listen, it's our last time!" she said.  "What are they going to do, fire us?! Who cares!"
The 72nd Golden Globes will be held at the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles and will air at 8 p.m. EST on NBC.
CNN's Todd Leopold contributed to this story.
