Nationalists held a narrow lead in Kyrgyzstan's parliamentary elections, the country's election commission said Monday.
Of the 87 percent of the votes counted by Monday morning, the Ata Zhurt party had won 8.6 percent, said Nuriya Iskanderova, a consultant for the commission.
The other four main parties followed with narrow margins separating them.
The pro-government SDPK (Social-Democratic Party of  Kyrgyzstan)  won 7.97 percent of the counted votes; followed by the
Arnamys Party (7.12 percent); the Republic Party (7.02 percent) and the Atameken Party (5.94 percent).
The election commission has to announce final results within two  weeks, said Klara Sooromkulova, a member of the election commission.
Voters in the Central Asian nation went to the polls Sunday to elect a new parliament. The elections come after a year that has seen the president flee the country and ethnic riots that left hundreds dead.
International monitors did not report any major complaints on election day, though local observers from the political parties were more vocal with their concerns, Sooromkulova said.
Voter turnout was high, especially in the south of the country, she said, including a 56 percent turnout in the capital, Bishkek.
The new government will have to rebuild "the entire infrastructure of the government, as well as the rebuilding of social cohesion and trust between ethnic groups," said Kanat Saudabayev, a top official with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
President Kurmanbek Bakiyev was deposed in April and was replaced by Roza Otunbayeva, who became the first female president of a Central Asian nation.
Two months later, at least 356 people were killed and about 400,000 fled their homes in a wave of violence between ethnic Kyrgyz and Uzbeks.
Shortly after that, Kyrgyz voters approved a new constitution that puts more power in the hands of parliament, reducing the president's role.
"Following the June situation of unrest and violence, it was not easy to organize the elections," Sooromkulova said.
Kyrgyzstan hosts a United States air base which is an essential supply route for NATO personnel and equipment into Afghanistan, called Manas Transit Center, as well as a Russian military base, Kant, just outside of the capital Bishkek.
Nearly 2.9 million people were eligible to vote for 120 lawmakers in a parliament called the Jogorku Kenesh, the Central Election Commission said.
There were 850 international election observers representing 32 organizations and 52 countries.
CNN's Bharati Naik contributed to this report.
