It's arguably the biggest game in world football -- and Real Madrid warmed up for next Sunday's El Clasico with a five-star showing led by their talisman Cristiano Ronaldo.
Ronaldo fired his 17th career hat-trick to signal his intentions ahead of next weekend's clash with arch-rivals and league leaders Barcelona and his showdown with Lionel Messi.
Brazilian great Ronaldo plumps for Messi ahead of Cristiano as world's best player
The 27-year-old had stated he was feeling sad about life in the Spanish capital but this latest display would have put a smile on his face.
Jose Mourinho's men are eight points adrift of the Catalan side going into the game at the Santiago Bernabeu.
While Barca will provide far stiffer opposition than Deportivo La Coruna, this was still a scintillating showing from Ronaldo and Real.
Deportivo had lost on its previous six visits to the Bernabeu but took a shock lead through former Real man Riki after 16 minutes.
But that was as good as it got for the visitors as Ronaldo fired his first treble since April.
The former Manchester United man equalized from the penalty spot before Angel Di Maria put the home side ahead.
Ronaldo grabbed his second after Sergio Ramos' effort was only parried by the goalkeeper and Pepe added a fourth with his first goal in ten months.
Ronaldo completed his hat-trick six minutes from time from the penalty spot after a handball by Evaldo Santos.
Atletico Madrid claimed a 1-0 win at Espanyol to go second in La Liga with Raul Garcia's goal enough to secure the points.
Villa on target as Barcelona snatch last-gasp win at Sevilla
Real Valladolid came from behind to smash six past Rayo Vallecano.
Alejandro Dominguez gave the visitors a fifth minute lead before Valladolid roared back in sensational style.
Alberto Bueno and Manucho soon had the home side ahead following a two-goal burst inside three minutes.
Oscar Gonzalez made it 3-1 before Antonio Rukavina extended Valladolid's lead once more.
Oscar slotted home his second and his side's fourth ten minutes after the break and Manucho completed the rout to seal an emphatic win.
Osasuna scored three goals in the last eight minutes to claim a 4-0 win over Levante.
Emilian Armenteros gave the home side a 10th minute lead but they were made to wait to seal the win.
Roland Lamah's doubled his side's advantage after 82 minutes with a David Timor penalty and Nino's injury-time strike helping Osasuna to its first win of the season.
Granada grabbed its first league win of the season courtesy of a 2-1 victory over Celta Vigo.
Guilherme Siqueira's 11th minute penalty and a Gabriel Torje effort secured the points for the hosts.
Cavani hat-trick moves Napoli level with Serie A leaders Juventus
Edinson Cavani netted his fifth goal in six games as Napoli kept up its Serie A ambitions with a win over Sampdoria.
With both teams unbeaten going into the clash, it took a second-half penalty from Cavani to separate the sides.
Marek Hamsik weaved his way into the Sampdoria penalty area only to be brought down by Daniele Gastaldello.
The Sampdoria man was shown a red card and Cavani smashed home the spot kick to leave Napoli level on points with league leaders Juventus.
Inter Milan picked up a 2-1 win over Fiorentina courtesy of goals from Diego Milito and Antonio Cassano in Sunday's late game.
Palermo grabbed its first win of the season as Fabrizio Miccoli scored a hat-trick to seal a 4-1 win over Chievo.
Miccoli fired home a stunning 13th minute free-kick only for Chievo to hit back through Marco Rigoni.
Palermo looked unlikely to hang on for a point after Franco Brienza was sent off after picking up two yellow cards.
But Miccoli shocked Chievo just minutes later as he fired home his hat-trick and Palermo's third.
Luigi Giorgi fired home a fourth late on to seal the win and lift Palermo off the bottom of Serie A.
Bologna claimed its second win of the season after cruising to a 4-0 win against Catania.
Tiberio Guarente fired home a 19th minute opener before Alberto Gilardino doubled Bologna's lead.
Gilardino scored his second just after the hour mark before Panagionis Kone sealed the win after Alessandro Diamanti's effort had been saved.
Torino produced a five-star showing as it thrashed Atalanta 5-1.
German Denis gave the home side the lead before Torino roared back in some style.
Rolando Bianchi converted from the penalty spot to equalise before Alessandro Gazzi headed Torino into the lead.
Alen Stevanovic's spectacular volley made it 3-1 befpre Danilo D'Ambrosio and another Bianchi effort wrapped up the win.
UEFA to take action against Lazio
Lazio bounced back from its midweek defeat against Napoli with a 2-1 win over Siena.
Honorato Ederson and Cristian Ledesma scored for the hosts with Massimo Paci scoring a late consolation for Siena.
Cagliari slumped to the bottom of Serie A after suffering a 2-1 home defeat against Pescara.
Christian Terlizzi and Vladimir Weiss got the goals for Pescara as they recorded a second victory in five days.
Mauricio Pinilla scored from the penalty spot with eight minutes remaining, while the hosts were also reduced to ten men when Luca Rossettini was sent off.
Udinese's disappointing start to the season continued after they were held to a goalless draw by Genoa.
Bayern maintain perfect start with win over Werder Bremen
In Germany, Eintracht Frankfurt continued their impressive start to the season with a 2-1 win over Freiburg.
Alexander Meir scored twice to earn Frankfurt a fifth win in six games to leave them just two points off league leaders Bayern Munich.
Karim Guede made matters worse for the visitors when he was sent off late on.
Wolfsburg suffered yet another home defeat after going down 2-0 to Mainz 05.
Junior Diaz's first goal for the club and Adam Szalai's effort secured all three points for the visitors.
Schalke held as Lille crash to defeat
In France, Marseille suffered a shock 4-1 defeat at Valenciennes as its six-match winning streak came to a dramatic end.
Gael Danic and former Liverpool man Anthony Le Tallec gave the home side a two-goal lead, before an inexplicable mistake by Marseille keeper Steve Mandanda allowed Foued Kadir to make it 3-0.
Le Tallec grabbed his second after the interval with Jordan Ayew netting a late consolation for the visitors.
Saint Etienne was held to a goalless draw at home by Stade de Reims.
Torres and Mata fire Chelsea to win over Arsenal
In the Premier League, Aston Villa came from behind to secure a 1-1 draw against West Bromwich Albion.
Darren Bent came off the bench to equalize for Villa after the visitors had taken the lead through Shane Long.
