(CNN)They thought they had found a paradise. They thought wrong.
The resolution of the Alexandria story arc is the first of six things you should watch this week.
1. "The Walking Dead," 9 p.m. ET Sunday, AMC
"The Walking Dead's" season-long plotline involving a group that headed north from Atlanta all comes to a head in a 90-minute season finale on Sunday night.
It's been a season in which Sonequa Martin-Green's character, Sasha, stood out: She's on the verge of insanity after the deaths of her brother and many friends.
"We went to a very deep place," Martin-Green said.
"It was hard, depressing, bad and thrilling all at the same time. A lot of the stuff was quite challenging for me. It was something I can definitely look back on and be proud of."
With Rick having gone on a blood-soaked, gun-wielding rant in front of the leaders of the Alexandria community, his fate and that of his fellow survivors hangs in the balance.
"There's gonna be all the twists and turns you would expect and twists and turns you did not expect," Martin-Green said of the episode.
"The finale is probably the most jam-packed episode there's ever been. Things are packed into it like sardines. All of the life is squeezed in there. They lengthened it to 90 minutes because there's just so much. It's a supersized monstrosity."
Her co-star Josh McDermitt added, "There's so much good stuff in this episode they didn't want to do the hourlong version. I can't wait for people to see it. And personally, I think it's going to go down as one of the best episodes the show has ever done."
2. "Call the Midwife," 9 p.m. ET Sunday, PBS
The fan favorite retro British series returns for a fourth season in the U.S.
Though the ladies of  ladies of Nonnatus House may not be quite as big as "Downton Abbey," fans of that series should enjoy this one.
3. "The Dovekeepers," 9 p.m. ET Tuesday and Wednesday, CBS
Roma Downey and Mark Burnett had a ratings smash two years ago with "The Bible" (and they have a sequel, "A.D.," coming next week on NBC). CBS has their follow-up in a two-part miniseries.
It's based on a novel following the journey of four women in the year 70, one of whom is played by "NCIS" alumna Cote de Pablo.
4. "Weird Loners," 9:30 p.m. ET Tuesday, Fox
Stop me if you've heard this one: A group of single men and women has to live in close proximity in New York.
Fox's latest sitcom, which hopes to build from the "New Girl" lead-in, stars two actors who have deserved their own shows: Zack Knighton ("Happy Endings") and Becki Newton ("How I Met Your Mother").
5. "Olympus," 10 p.m. ET Thursday, Syfy
Syfy takes on Greek mythology in this new series with plenty of magic, creatures and interesting costumes.
6. "Outlander," 9 p.m. ET April 4, Starz
The Scottish time-travel romance returns to finish off its first season, as Claire and Jamie's relationship is tested. No matter what happens, the hardcore fan base will be there every step of the way.
