France international footballer Patrice Evra is determined to follow up his complaint of racism against Uruguay striker Luis Suarez, according to his club manager.
Manchester United defender Evra accused his Liverpool opponent of racially abusing him during Saturday's 1-1 Premier League draw, and the English Football Association said it would investigate after match referee Andre Marriner reported the incident.
Suarez denied the claims in a statement on his Facebook page, but United manager Alex Ferguson told reporters on Monday that Evra stands by his comments to French television channel Canal Plus.
"I spoke to Patrice today. He is adamant he wants to follow it on," Ferguson said ahead of Tuesday's Champions League clash with Romanian minnows Otelul Galati.
"It is not an easy one for us. It is not something we would want to level against Liverpool, and it is not against Liverpool. Obviously Patrice feels very aggrieved at what was said to him. It rests in the hands of the FA now."
Ask Samuel Eto'o and Roberto Carlos your questions
United and Liverpool are bitter rivals, and Ferguson appealed to both sets of fans before the match at Anfield, asking them not to sing abusive chants about the clubs' respective tragedies in Munich and Hillsborough.
Eight of United's players were killed in the 1958 German air crash that claimed 23 lives, while 96 Liverpool supporters died during an FA Cup semifinal in 1989.
"Saturday was terrific. Both sets of fans were good," Ferguson said. "There was not any of that silly chanting we have had in previous years. Both sets of fans deserve praise for that."
United midfielder Ashley Young was racially abused by Bulgaria fans during England's Euro 2012 qualifier in Sofia in September, but Ferguson said there are no such problems in the Premier League.
"I am not aware of any instances in terms of British football," the 69-year-old Scot said.
"It doesn't happen in England. There are very few examples of that. Maybe this is what surprised Patrice Evra. He thought he was slighted on Saturday.
"We don't want to see it. It is as simple as that."
Ferguson said Evra would be in contention to play in Romania, with last season's Champions League finalists United seeking to kickstart a faltering European campaign after picking up just two points from two Group C matches.
"Yes, yes. There is no problem," he said, while confirming that England striker Wayne Rooney would play despite Sunday's top-of-the-table derby clash with Manchester City looming.
Rooney started on the bench against Liverpool following the news that he will be banned for all three of England's Euro 2012 finals group matches after his red card against Montenegro.
"When the initial news came through it was a definite blow for him. He didn't expect that. None of us did," Ferguson said.
In Tuesday's other Group C game, Swiss side Basel host Portugal's Benfica with both clubs on four points.
In Group B, Italy's Internazionale travel to French side Lille on the back of another domestic defeat at the weekend, while Turkey's Trabzonspor will seek to extend their lead at home to CSKA Moscow.
Group A leaders Bayern Munich visit Italy's Napoli in search of a third successive win, while Manchester City host Spain's Villarreal with both teams in search of a first victory.
Nine-time European champions Real Madrid will seek a third successive Group D victory at home to French side Lyon in the clubs' ninth meeting in six years.
Dutch club Ajax, whose fourth European title came in 1995, travel to Croatia's Dinamo Zagreb -- with neither team having won yet this season.
