Australian Open champion Stanislas Wawrinka is safely through to the last 16 of the Miami Masters after defeating Edouard Roger-Vasselin of France in straight sets 7-5 6-4.
The world No. 3, who battled past Daniel Gimeno-Traver in the previous round, was again made to work hard by his lower-ranked opponent.
The first set was heading for a tie-break before Wawrinka broke the Frenchman's serve in the 12th game to close out the set in 45 minutes.
The Swiss looked to be running away with the second after opening up a 3-0 lead, but the world No. 43 battled back to 4-4 before Wawrinka broke serve again in the 10th game to take the match.
Wawrinka, who has never gone further than the last 16 in Miami, will now face Alexandr Dolgopolov after the No. 22 seed beat Dusan Lajovic 3-6 6-0 7-6 (7/5).
The Ukrainian, who shocked Rafael Nadal in the third round at Indian Wells, edged through in a tiebreak after rain halted play for an hour with the score poised at 5-5 in the final set.
Canada's Milos Raonic is through to the fourth round in Miami for the first time after a dominant 6-1 6-2 win over Spain's Guillermo Garcia-Lopez.
The No. 12 seed will now face Germany's Benjamin Becker who beat Aljaz Bedene from Slovenia 6-3, 7-5.
In the women's draw, Serena Williams is safely through the quarterfinals after defeating compatriot Coco Vandeweghe 6-3 6-1.
The No. 1 seed overpowered her opponent ranked 104 in the world hitting 17 winners and making only 11 unforced errors, but said afterwards that the match was far from one-sided.
"It was a much tougher match than the scoreline showed," Williams said. "CoCo has such an amazing serve, so every time I was returning I was like, 'Hopefully I can touch the ball.' But it was really good for me to win this match today. I love playing here in Miami."
The defending champion will meet fifth seed Angelique Kerber who needed all three sets to get past Russia's Ekaterina Makarova.
The German won the first set comfortably enough before Makarova fought back to take the second. But it was Kerber who prevailed in the final set to take the match 6-4 1-6 6-3.
Maria Sharapova also needed three sets to overcome Belgium's Kirsten Flipkens.
The Russian fourth seed lost the opening set, serving five double faults, before battling back strongly to win 3-6 6-4 6-1 and book a place in the quarterfinals.
Sharapova, a runner-up in Miami on five previous occasions, is hoping to break her duck this year.
"Of course you want to be able to hold the winner's trophy, but you also know the matches you've got to get through to get to the final stage," Sharapova said.
"It's not like I didn't have my opportunities in those finals. I just didn't take them. That's why you come back and hope for another chance."
Sharapova will face eighth seed Petra Kvitova after the Czech beat Serbia's Ana Ivanovic 3-6 6-0 6-0.
Read more: Juan Martin del Potro to miss the rest of the season?
