Robin Soderling will be hoping to improve on a dismal record at the Australian Open next week after an impressive display saw him clinch the Brisbane International title in Queensland, Australia.
The Swede brushed aside Andy Roddick in straight sets 6-3 7-5 in Sunday's final at the Pat Rafter Arena to claim his seventh career title and raise expectations of a good run at the Australian Open, which starts in Melbourne on January 17.
The victory means Soderling moves up to fourth in the world rankings ahead of Scotland's Andy Murray. The Swede will also be seeded fourth in Melbourne.
The 26-year-old's improved ranking and good form should, in theory at least, give him an excellent chance of bettering his best performance at the Australian Open and make it past the second round for the first time.
"I'm playing really well and it makes me really happy. I've never really played well in Australia before and now finally I won a tournament playing really good tennis. It gives me a lot of confidence for Melbourne," Soderling said, ATPWorldTour.com reported.
In an impressive service display, Soderling didn't face any break points on his serve, while creating ten on his opponent.
Roddick was taken to deuce in his first service game and then lost his second as Soderling seized early control of the match.
Faultless serving by the Swede ensured he wrapped up the first set in just 35 minutes.
There was no let up in the second set and Roddick did well to stay in the set as long as he did. The American saved three break points in the fifth game but was finally broken in the 11th to allow Soderling to serve out the match.
"I've had the best possible preparation I could have with five good matches here, now I'll have a week of rest and practice in Melbourne and I'll be more than ready to go. I know I have a chance to do really well if I play good tennis like here," Soderling said, ATPWorldTour.com reported.
Roddick was full of praise for the in-form Swede.
"He served great. Conditions were heavy and he served through it better. I think that was the difference; I wasn't able to get into any return games and he got into two and was able to break in those," Roddick said, ATPWorldTour reported.
Earlier in the week Roddick pledged $100 for every ace he served in the tournament to go towards Queensland's flood relief fund.
After the final, having served 54 aces during the week, the World No.8 doubled the pledge to $200, raising his donation to $10,800.
