Bolton's Fabrice Muamba made an emotional appearance at their Reebok Stadium before their game against Tottenham Wednesday, just 46 days after collapsing on the pitch against the same opposition.
He walked on to the field to a standing ovation with the crowd chanting his name in unison.
The 24-year-old midfielder was visibly moved as he acknowledged their cheers before joining his fiancee Shauna Magunda in the stands to watch the vital English Premier League game.
Muamba's heart stopped for 78 minutes after his collapse at White Hart Lane on March 17 in an FA Cup tie.
Millions watched the horrific scenes on television but he has since made a remarkable recovery and left the London Chest Hospital on April 16.
"This is a special place, the support has been overwhelming and I am just grateful for that," Muamba told Sky Sports before Wednesday's match.
"I am okay, I am getting stronger every day. I am happy to be back I am just happy to be able to speak to people again and walk freely."
In his absence, Bolton have continued to battle against relegation, but their hopes of avoiding the drop suffered a major setback as Tottenham won 4-1 with goals from Luka Modric, Rafael van der Vaart and a second half double from Emmanuel Adebayor.
The visitors dominated and might have been ahead before Croatian star Modric scored just before halftime with a superb long range effort.
Bolton equalized soon after the break as Nigel Reo Coker converted with a 51st minute strike, but Tottenham's lead was restored when Dutch international van der Vaart finished off a flowing move.
Adebayor ended any hopes of a home comeback with two neat finishes after being played through by more slick passing.
Victory left Tottenham in fourth spot in the battle for Champions League places, edging Newcastle on goal difference.
Newcastle were 2-0 winners at Chelsea Wednesday, all but ending the home side's hopes of qualification for the Champions League through league position.
Chelsea face Liverpool in the FA Cup final at Wembley Saturday and Bayern Munich in the final of the Champions League on May 19 in a bid for double silverware under interim manager Roberto di Matteo.
Despite these upcoming big matches, they fielded a strong side at home to Newcastle, but were second best once Papiss Demba Cisse had put the visitors ahead with a stunning first half strike.
Chelsea showed little sign of equalizing and Senegal star Cisse finished them off in injury time with another sublime effort.
