Authorities are investigating an anonymous threat against the University of Mississippi's signature greenery ahead of the school's big football game Saturday against bitter rival Mississippi State.
A note received Tuesday on the Oxford, Mississippi, campus of Ole Miss said, "What's going to happen to ya'll on the field Saturday Aint nothing compared to what's going to happen on your beautiful campus. You won't be one of the most pretty campus's Next year. A lot of shrubs and trees are going to die; especially in the grove. Can't stop us."
The handwritten note was signed, "Hail State Go to Hell TSUN."
TSUN, a reference to Ole Miss, stands for "The School Up North" -- both a geographical and snarky term for Oxford's location 100 miles northeast of the town of Starkville and Mississippi State and widely used when discussing the schools' matchup.
It was not clear how the note came to the attention of authorities, but university police said it was sent to the FBI's office in Jackson this week.
The warning against The Grove, the University of Mississippi's storied tailgating area, also prompted campus police to add additional law enforcement resources to address fan safety around the stadium ahead of the matchup, known to fans as the Egg Bowl.
"Fans are being encouraged to report any suspicious behavior," said Danny Blanton, director of public relations at the University of Mississippi. "We are looking forward to having another hospitable, enjoyable experience to celebrate the final home game of the season."
The threat recalls another Southeastern Conference rivalry that prompted one fan to the poison Auburn University's trees at the school's Toomer's Corner.
Alabama fan Harvey Updyke Jr. targeted the famed oaks after Auburn won a contentious November 2010 football game against the University of Alabama. Updyke served 76 days in prison for the crime.
"This longtime football rivalry has separated families and friends for generations, but while it's spirited, our attention has been focused mostly on the football field," Ole Miss police Chief Calvin Sellers said in a statement. "We encourage everyone to remember that this is a game, after all, not a time for hate. We are hopeful that passions have not escalated to the point that someone is prepared to do damage to a landmark for which all Mississippians take great pride."
