Alberto Contador has criticized the two-year suspension he received for doping -- and has vowed to return to cycling in August even stronger than before.
On Monday, the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) found Contador guilty of taking banned substance clenbuterol, although they also ruled that the Spaniard did not ingest it intentionally and was likely a victim of a contaminated food supplement.
But the 29-year-old, who addressed a packed press conference at a hotel in his home town of Pinto, just south of Madrid, said he was disgusted with the outcome and protested his innocence.
"I am going to continue cycling," said Contador. "I am going to continue practicing it cleanly, the way I have my entire life.
"My mood right now is not the best but I know this will make me stronger in the future," added Contador, who blamed contaminated steak for his positive test.
He continued: "Anyone who reads the decision will clearly see that I did not take drugs. The hardest thing has been to see the suffering my family has been through."
Contador's positive test related to the 2010 Tour de France, which he won by just 39 seconds ahead of Luxembourg's Andy Schleck.
It was made public by Contador himself in August 2010, with the two-year ban backdated to that announcement, meaning he can resume racing in seven months.
However, Contador has been stripped of all his victories from that period, with Schleck now awarded the 2010 Tour de France title and Italian Michele Scarponi named the winner of the 2011 Giro d'Italia.
He will miss this year's Giro, Tour and Olympic Games. However, he will be eligible for the 2012 Tour of Spain, a race he won in 2008, and for the world championships in Limburg, Netherlands.
Contador would not elaborate on his future racing plans, saying: "I still don't know what my program will be after my suspension.
"I have to organize my future but that does not depend only on me. What I know for sure is that I want to continue to win the biggest races in the world."
