January 29, 2014
Political headlines lead off Wednesday's edition of CNN Student News, one day after the president delivered his annual State of the Union address and the Republican Party responded. We also look into some phrases and props of previous addresses, and we cover a severe winter storm that covered parts of the U.S. Southeast.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What sources might you seek out if you wanted to hear two different views on a political speech?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  State of the Union
2.  GOP response
3.  luge
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1.  What annual speech did President Obama deliver last night?  Who delivered the Republican response to that speech?
2.  According to the video: Who tries to influence what is included in the State of the Union address?  Who is the "real" audience for this speech?
3.  What U.S. states that usually don't see much snow saw it yesterday?  What problems did the snowfall cause?
Discussion Questions:
1.  According to the video:  What were some of the topics discussed by the president in last night's State of the Union address?  What was included in the Republican response?  What clues do each of these speeches provide about each party's view of government?
2.  What is meant by the term "bully pulpit"?  According to the video, how is the State of the Union a speech "on the grandest bully pulpit of all?" What are some memorable phrases and props from previous State of the Union addresses?  Why do you think that some might define a presidency by what is said in this speech?
3.  In your opinion, what, if anything, makes a political speech memorable?
4.  What are some lessons that can be learned from stories of athletes who have overcome adversity?  Is there an athlete that you find inspirational because of a challenge he or she has overcome?  Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
