A federal lawsuit accusing John Travolta of assault and sexual battery on two massage therapists includes lurid details of one of the alleged incidents. Travolta's lawyer soundly rejected the claims of both plaintiffs and called the claims of the first plaintiff "complete fiction."
In the first incident, Travolta allegedly groped a male massage therapist repeatedly and finally masturbated himself during the two-hour session in a bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel on January 16, 2012, according to court documents filed last Friday.
The first plaintiff, a Texas native who is unidentified in the court documents, "suffered severe emotional distress," the lawsuit claims. The lawsuit is asking for $2 million in damages.
"This lawsuit is a complete fiction and fabrication," a statement from Travolta's representative said. "None of the events claimed in the suit ever occurred."
A second male therapist, who was allegedly sexually assaulted by Travolta at an Atlanta hotel on January 25, was added to the lawsuit Tuesday.
"This second 'anonymous' claim is just as absurd and ridiculous as the first one," said Travolta lawyer Martin Singer on Tuesday afternoon.
The Travolta statement questions why the first plaintiff is identified only as "John Doe" in the court filing.
"The plaintiff, who refuses to give their name, knows that the suit is a baseless lie," the statement said. "It is for that reason that the plaintiff hasn't been identified with a name even though it is required to do so."
Travolta's statement said plaintiffs' attorney Okorie Okorocha filed the suit to "get his 15 minutes of fame." Once it is thrown out of court, Travolta will sue him for "malicious prosecution," it said.
Okorocha, who said his practice specializes in going after sexual predators, said he is not intimidated.
"There are many potential plaintiffs, but I am only adding them as I am able to fully investigate and vet them," Okorocha said.
Singer said it is "easily provable" that Travolta was not in California on the day the first incident allegedly happened "since John Travolta was on the East Coast working on a movie on the date that anonymous 'Doe No. 1' claims he interacted with our client."
Okorocha said he was in discussions with Travolta's lawyer for weeks before filing the suit last week and was never told this.
"I would not have filed it if they had indicated they had even McDonalds receipt to show he was anywhere but California," Okorocha said.
Travolta was photographed at an event in Los Angeles about 30 hours before the alleged incident, he said.
Travolta and his lawyer "already conceded he was in Los Angeles on January 16, and we can prove it," Okorocha said.
Singer said it was "obvious" that Okorocha "checked media reports that my client was in Atlanta working on a movie" before filing the second claim about an incident at an Atlanta hotel.
"However, the claim by Doe No. 2 is just as fabricated as the claim by Doe No. 1," Singer said. "Our client will be fully vindicated in court on both of these absurd and fictional claims."
Travolta, 58, has been married to actress Kelly Preston for 20 years. The oldest of their three children, Jett, was 16 when he died of a seizure while the family was vacationing in the Bahamas in January 2009.
2009: Travoltas mourn the loss of their son Jett
The lawsuit, obtained by CNN, alleges that Travolta called the first plaintiff, who advertises online with "professionally themed ads," to arrange for a massage at $200 an hour. Travolta picked him up in a black Lexus SUV at a Beverly Hills address and drove him to the hotel, according to the lawsuit.
When they entered the bungalow, Travolta "shamelessly stripped naked" in front of a professional chef and the plaintiff, the lawsuit states.
"He wants me to get on the table, can you believe that?" Travolta told the chef, according to the document.
"For the first hour the massage was without incident, other than he kept purposefully sliding the towel down that covered his buttocks to reveal about half of gluteus area," the suit states.
The massage therapist repeatedly slid the towel back up 10 times in the first hour, "reminding Defendant that state law required that a massage client be fully draped during the massage," the suit states.
When Travolta "started to rub Plaintiff's leg," he "thought it was accidental," it said.
Later, however, there was more touching by Travolta "and this time Plaintiff told Defendant to please not touch him again," the complaint said.
"Defendant apologized, but then snickered to himself like a mischievous child," it said.
The lawsuit then described Travolta allegedly touching and grabbing the massage therapist's penis.
"This was painful and uncomfortable," the suit said. Travolta apologized and suggested they "must have gotten our signals crossed," and that he thought that the massage therapist "wanted the same thing he did," it said. "Defendant then tried to act like it was a simple misunderstanding."
Travolta then asked him to switch places on the table for a "reverse massage," the lawsuit states.
Travolta allegedly offered to perform a sexual act on the therapist.
Although the therapist "felt very afraid for his safety," he agreed to stay and continue with the massage after Travolta told him "OK, I'll behave myself," the suit said.
Travolta's statement "gave plaintiff confidence that his predatory behavior was finally under control," the suit said.
When he resumed with a deep tissue massage on his shoulders, Travolta told him, "Say something nice to me," it said.
Travolta, who allegedly began masturbating, then got up and screamed at the plaintiff "how selfish he was; that Defendant got where he is now due to sexual favors he had performed when he was in his 'Welcome Back Kotter' days," the suit said.
Hollywood is controlled by homosexual men "who expect favors in return for sexual activity," the lawsuit document quotes Travolta as saying.
"Defendant then went on to say how he had done things in his past that would make most people throw up," it said.
The complaint said Travolta told the therapist that "he was smart enough to learn to enjoy it, and when he began to make millions of dollars, that it all became well worth it."
When the therapist refused to take part, Travolta said, "No problem. I will find new friends," the suit said.
He then offered to call a "Hollywood starlet" who wanted "three-way sex," but "they needed to have sex together first before calling her, so this way they would be in-sync with each other sexually," the suit said.
The actor told him he could "make millions and be famous" if he lost some weight and adapted to same-sex relations, the suit said.
When the therapist threatened to call police if he was not returned to where he was picked up, Travolta drove him back, although calling him "selfish" and a "loser" on the way, it said.
He paid the therapist $800, double the $400 owed for the two hours, the suit said.
CNN's Carolyn Sung contributed to this report.
