Oprah Winfrey, who was pregnant at 14 and lost the baby, said she thought about killing herself and saw the loss of the child as a second chance.
In a wide-ranging interview that aired Monday during the premiere of CNN's "Piers Morgan Tonight," the talk show queen also spoke about love, her long-term partner, Stedman Graham, and what she plans to do with all her money once she's gone.
Winfrey, 56, said she was sent to live with her father in Nashville when she was a young teenager. He laid down the rules of his house early, and without knowing she was pregnant.
"'I would rather see a daughter of mine floating down the Cumberland River,' he said, 'than to bring shame on this family and the indecency of an illegitimate child,'" Winfrey said, quoting her father.
"He's saying that to me, and I know that I am pregnant. So I'm thinking, well, I'm just going to have to kill myself," she said.
Winfrey did not attempt suicide, though she said she tried things that were cries for help -- like drinking detergent.
"When the baby died, I knew that it was my second chance," she said.
Winfrey, best known for the "The Oprah Winfrey Show," now runs her own channel, appropriately titled OWN.
She described her longtime partner, Stedman Graham, as someone who is "willing to stand in and stand up" for her.
"The reason this relationship has worked as well as it has is because we each got to define ourselves in it and not in a traditional form. There's nothing about it that's traditional," Winfrey said. "I am a different kind of woman in that I am pretty assured that had I married I wouldn't have remained married."
"I'm just not the marrying kind," she said.
The talk show queen said she's had her heart broken twice.
Winfrey also discussed what she plans to do with her massive fortune once she dies.
"When I'm gone, everything that I have is going to go to charity because I don't have children. And I believe that that's what you should do," she said. "To whom much is given, much should be given back."
