Arsenal scored three late goals to beat Norwich City 3-1 at the Emirates on Saturday and move up to third in the English Premier League.
The Gunners went behind to a Michael Turner header in the 56th minute and looked to be heading towards defeat with five minutes left on the clock.
But in a remarkable turnaround, Arsene Wenger's side scored three goals in seven minutes to steal all three points.
Mikel Arteta began the fightback, scoring from the penalty spot in the 85th after Kei Kamara was adjudged to have brought down Olivier Giroud.
It was Giroud who gave Arsenal the lead three minutes later touching in Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain's cross to send home fans delirious.
Join the debate with CNN FC
The comeback was completed when Lukas Podolski scored a third in injury time to hand Arsenal their eighth league win in ten games.
Norwich, on the other hand, have won just one of their last ten and remain in danger of being dragged back into a relegation battle.
"No-one could predict we would score three goals, but we have great attitude, spirit and desire and it got us there. We deserved to win but we were against a strong side and needed something special," Arsene Wenger said after the match.
The win takes Arsenal above London rivals Chelsea -- who play Manchester City in the FA Cup semifinal at Wembley on Sunday -- and Tottenham Hotspur.
In Saturday's other English Premier League fixtures, Everton kept up their push for a Champions League place next season with a 2-0 over Queens Park Rangers.
The win leaves them three points behind fifth place Spurs (58 points) and five points clear of Merseyside rivals Liverpool who played out a goalless draw at Reading -- a result which helps neither side.
Reading remain bottom of the table with 24 points, while Harry Redknapp's QPR, who also have 24 points, look destined for the drop now with just five games remaining.
Aston Villa remain in 16th place after 1-1 draw against Fulham, while mid-table West Ham United and Southampton also played out a 1-1 draw.
Third-from-bottom Wigan may be threatened with relegation but their fans won't be thinking about that this weekend after a 2-0 win over championship side Millwall in the semifinal of the FA Cup.
Goals from Shaun Maloney and Callum McManaman ensured Wigan reached the final of England's most prestigious cup competition for the first time in their 81-year history.
