It's one of the most individual sports, yet it sometimes demands that fierce rivals unify to compete against other countries in what could be called the World Cup of tennis.
A Davis Cup final already steeped in intrigue soared to another level Saturday and now the question is: Can Roger Federer and Switzerland recover against France in front of a potential record crowd this weekend?
Federer's back -- the area of his body that has intermittently hindered the 17-time grand slam champion in a mostly healthy career -- is only part of the issue.
His relationship with teammate Stan Wawrinka in the wake of 'Mirka Gate' is worth monitoring, too.
It's certainly not the build-up the 33-year-old Federer wanted as he seeks one of the two biggest titles to elude him, the other being an Olympic singles gold.
Federer's wife, Mirka, might have taunted Wawrinka during her husband's dramatic 4-6 7-5 7-6 (6) win at the World Tour Finals in London and it reportedly led to a verbal bust up between the men who captured doubles gold together at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.
Federer then handed only the third walkover of his career to an opponent, the back not healthy enough to take on world No. 1 Novak Djokovic.
At least on the relationship front, though, things appear to be better between Federer and Wawrinka ahead of the affair at the Stade Pierre Mauroy, the home of Lille in football's Ligue 1.
Federer posted a picture on Twitter of a united looking Swiss side and members of the squad said Tuesday in Lille that any tension was gone.
"We had a conversation after the match," Federer told reporters. "Everything's totally relaxed about the situation. We're old enough.
"There's no hard feelings whatsoever. We're having a good time here. We are friends, not enemies. But obviously it was maybe one of those moments, heat-of-the-moment situations."
Wawrinka blamed the press for blowing things out of proportion.
"For us it's nothing," he told reporters. "It took us five minutes to talk about it, to think about the next main goal that we have -- the Davis Cup this weekend."
Heading into the semifinal at the O2 Arena, the Swiss appeared to have the upper hand in the Davis Cup final.
Federer maintained his excellent 2014 form, while Wawrinka -- the Australian Open champion -- arrested a slump by winning two matches and extended his compatriot to three tight sets. He even had four match points.
The eventful Saturday changed the complexion of the series.
Making the transition from one surface to another is difficult -- the home team chose clay for the Davis Cup final and has practiced on it for weeks -- although at least a long flight wasn't needed for the Swiss to get to northern France.
Wawrinka actually took the train from London.
But Federer's back is of greater concern.
His spot was confirmed in the draw Thursday -- he will face Gael Monfils on Friday after Wawrinka battles Jo-Wilfried Tsonga -- but being at 100 percent seems unlikely.
The majority of the at least 27,000 expected to be in attendance per day -- the largest tennis crowd for a professional match remains the 27,200 who turned up to watch Spain defeat the U.S. in the 2004 final in Seville -- probably wouldn't mind if Federer is sub-par since it would give France a massive advantage.
Federer practiced on the clay for the first time Wednesday.
"I'm just really pleased that I'm actually able to play tomorrow," Federer said at the draw Thursday. "I'll give it a go. Definitely looking forward to playing against Gael.
"Things have been going very well for me the last week. It's been a difficult week, but I'm happy where I am today."
Federer declined to reveal whether he had taken a cortisone injection for his back.
All the turmoil in the Swiss camp doesn't mean tennis loving France -- desperate to end a 13-year drought in the competition -- can relax, according to French No. 1 Tsonga.
"I think for this weekend, the important thing for us is to stay focused on ourselves, on our team," Tsonga told reporters. "What we need is to have a perfect performance.
"What we can do is just play tennis. Anything else is not really our business."
Federer and Wawrinka were sure things to play singles for Switzerland if deemed fit, with France holding more options.
French captain Arnaud Clement didn't pull off a major surprise, however, when he named Monfils as the No. 2.
Monfils habitually shines at home, spurred on by the crowd and raising his level.
One of his two victories over Federer came at the Paris Masters and he held two match points against Federer at the U.S. Open in September.
Federer, however, has topped Monfils three times on the clay of Roland Garros.
Federer was omitted from Saturday's doubles, as was Wawrinka, though changes can be made on the day.
If France falters early, the large crowd may not be beneficial. The French have been known to boo their own at Roland Garros, for example.
"This is a competition that you want to win," former French No. 4 Sebastien Grosjean, Gasquet's co-coach who played in three finals, told CNN.com. "You play for your country and you play for your friends but you try to focus on yourself, on your game -- a simple plan."
