Sebastian Vettel led from start to finish to claim the Canadian Grand Prix Sunday to extend his title lead as he searches for a fourth straight Formula One world championship.
The Red Bull star pulled clear from pole position and was never seriously challenged as he finished with a winning margin of over 14 seconds from second placed Fernando Alonso.
Lewis Hamilton, who started on the front row with Vettel in his Mercedes, claimed the final podium spot, overtaken in the closing stages by the charging Alonso, who had started sixth on the grid in his Ferrari.
But up front, Vettel was untouchable, claiming his first win at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve in Montreal and his 29th career triumph.
Interactive: Results and standings
It has left him 36 points clear of two-time champion Alonso in the title race. Kimi Raikkonen occupied third spot, a further eight points adrift.
The Finn was way off the pace in his Lotus, but came home ninth to be in the points for a remarkable 24th straight race, equaling the record of seven-time world champion Michael Schumacher.
Mark Webber battled a damaged front wing to claim fourth for Red Bull, who increased their lead in the constructors' race over Ferrari.
Monaco winner Nico Rosberg finished fifth in the second Mercedes ahead of Jean-Eric Vergne in the Toro Rosso.
Britain's Paul Di Resta, adopting a one-stop strategy in the Force India, finished seventh with Felipe Massa in eighth for Ferrari. Adrian Sutil claimed the final point for Force India.
Vettel was delighted to break his win drought in Canada after coming so close on previous occasions.
"We had good races here before but it didn't come together to win, " he said at the victory celebration.
"I lost it in the last lap two years ago which was my fault but I made up for that today."
Alonso, clearly the crowd favorite with the fans, who roared their appreciation as he overtook his old rival Hamilton for second, was pleased to limit his losses on Vettel.
"I think second tastes of victory, because we scored some good points after a very difficult weekend."
Hamilton, who is fourth in the title race, was also satisfied as Mercedes maintained their good start to the season.
"We just have to keep pushing so we can get closer to these guys."
His old team McLaren suffered another disappointing race, with Sergio Perez and Jenson Button in 11th and 12th.
It was the first time McLaren has been out of the points in 64 races.
Young Finn Valtteri Bottas, who was a surprise third on the grid for Williams, also slipped back through the field to come home 14th, continuing his team's pointless start to the campaign.
