(Elle.com) -- From Blue Ivy and Suri to North and Matilda, these celebrity kiddos have totally inherited their mothers' style smarts -- and so can you.
Beyoncé Knowles & Blue Ivy Carter: Big hair, don't care
Even now that she's ditched the hair extensions, Beyoncé is the queen of the pop star mane. Her hair has as much range as her vocals, and we can already see Baby Blue following suit with her adorable "halo" of springy curls. And it's just a matter of time before Blue Ivy picks up another of her mother's fashion habits: wearing Tom Ford heels. The designer created a pair of pink satin pumps especially for the tyke.
Elle.com: 10 fashionable babies that will give north west a run for her money
Gwyneth Paltrow & Apple Martin: All-natural is all goop good
While Apple Martin's personal style is a bit trendier and more playful than mama Gwyneth's typically streamlined wardrobe (purple Uggs are a favorite), the nine-year-old has definitely inherited her mother's all-natural beauty and long, center-parted golden locks. In this day of "Toddlers and Tiaras," there's a lot to be said for that sort of simplicity. Can we get her to guest-edit the next Goop newsletter?
Jessica Alba & Honor Warren: Go girly or go home
Here's a mother/daughter duo that you'll never see in sweats. Jessica Alba has instilled in her daughter a love for all things feminine. These girls love their dresses, hair bows, and handbags, though they're also partial to wearing matching leather jackets on occasion. It doesn't get any girlier than this, but we totally love it.
Elle.com: Celebrities with the best winter style
Kate Beckinsale & Lily Sheen: There's no such thing as being overdressed
It's hard to believe that Kate Beckinsale is old enough to have a 14-year-old daughter, but there you have it. Perhaps it's because teenage Lily always looks so mature and lady-like in the outfits she chooses, whether it's a printed Burberry shift or a bustier-topped gold cocktail dress. The girl's growing up fast, but at least she's found a good teacher in the art of going glam: dear ol' Mum.
Katie Holmes & Suri Cruise: Jenna Lyons knows best
Yes, Suri's had her diva phase (those tiny heels! those designer bags!). Now, the seven-year-old and her mother Katie have become unofficial spokespeople for J.Crew and its Crewcuts children's line. Whether it's oversized sweaters, floral leggings, or sweet sundresses, Katie's mini-me is big on preppy, all-American style pieces—though accessorizing with a Lanvin fur gilet now and again doesn't hurt.
Elle.com: How to dress like an it girl
Kim Kardashian & North West: When in doubt, go with givenchy
It helps to have parents who are joined at the hip with Givenchy creative director Riccardo Tisci. Not only has the designer been photographed cuddling with little "Nori," but he's also sent her several designer duds, including an itsy-bitsy custom Bambi tee. Let's hope the infant's get-ups receive better feedback than the much-maligned floral frock mama Kim wore to the 2013 Met Gala while heavily pregnant.
Michelle Williams & Matilda Ledger: Prints, please
Though her favorite print right now has to be the Louis Vuitton monogram, actress/campaign star Michelle Williams has always been fond of patterned pieces. It's not unusual to see her and eight-year-old Matilda in mommy-and-me Breton stripes, geometric graphic prints, or girly floral dresses. Life's too short to be basic.
Elle.com: 7 editor styling tricks guaranteed to make you look thinner
Reese Witherspoon & Ava Phillippe: California cool
Besides being a dead-ringer for her mother, Reese Witherspoon, Ava Philippe has adopted her mom's casual, preppy-with-a-touch-of boho style. Shorts are a constant for both her and Mom, as are denim jackets, skinny jeans, hoodies, and sundresses. And is just us, or is it getting really hard to tell these two apart?
Sofia Coppola & Romy Mars: Stay grounded with flats
There are many, many reasons to admire Sofia Coppola, but chief among them is her non-conforming decision to skip the stilettos and wear flats on the red carpet. It seems her six-year-old daughter, Romy, has been taking notes. Like her mom, the grade-schooler favors a chic bob and clean, Parisienne-chic basics paired with ballet flats and sandals.
Elle.com: How to find the perfect berry lipstick
Victoria & Harper Beckham: Pink? Puh-lease
Kudos to Victoria for resisting the urge to deck out her little girl in head-to-toe pink. Instead, the precious two-year-old favors gender-neutral hues like gray and camel, with a splash of yellow and baby blue thrown in. "She definitely has a point of view," Harper's mother says. "If I'm going out for the night I'll come downstairs and she'll say 'Oh, nice dress, Mummy' or 'Nice handbag, Mummy." Sounds like our kind of toddler.
Elle.com: Style staples that borrow from the boys
