Gary Vincent Giordano, who last year was held in Aruba for nearly four months as authorities investigated the disappearance of a woman traveling with him, has been charged with indecent exposure along with a woman after police found them unclothed in the back of a Cadillac Escalade, police in Maryland said Tuesday.
Carol Ann Bock, 45, of Springfield, Tennessee, was also charged with indecent exposure after police saw her left breast exposed in plain sight while she was lying in the rear cargo area of the black 2005 Escalade sport utility vehicle with Giordano, of Gaithersburg, Maryland, according to an Annapolis Police Department report.
The SUV was parked on the second level of the Noah Hillman parking garage in the Annapolis historic district, and police received a report of possible sexual activity inside a vehicle at the garage, the report said. The incident occurred late Friday afternoon, police said.
"While we recognize that Mr. Giordano enjoys an infamous reputation, the Annapolis arrest was simply a matter of effective police work in response to citizen complaints," Annapolis Chief Michael Pristoop said. "Officers took quick and appropriate action under the circumstances. Indecent exposure and other offensive conduct are intolerable."
Two passers-by complained to a garage employee about the SUV, and when the employee located the vehicle, he observed a woman and man cuddled together, with the man not wearing any clothes, the report said.
Police found the couple partially covered by a blanket and lying on a single mattress in the back of the SUV, and one officer shined his light into the vehicle to gain the couple's attention, the report said.
Bock "pulled the sheet up to her neck," and Giordano adjusted a towel over his midsection, but the other officer eventually "could see that Mr. Giordano was completely nude," the report said.
"Ms. Bock was instructed to put her clothing on and exit the vehicle," the report said.
In Aruba last year, Giordano had been held in the disappearance of 35-year-old Robyn Gardner of Maryland. Giordano told authorities the two were snorkeling on August 2 when he signaled to Gardner to swim back. When he reached the beach, he told police, Gardner was nowhere to be found and has not been seen since.
Aruban prosecutor Taco Stein said last year that he was aware Giordano was going to return home after being freed. "If we need him again, we will seek extradition with the United States," he said.
Giordano took out a $1.5 million life insurance policy on Gardner days before they traveled to Aruba. On ABC's "Good Morning America" last year, he said he purchased travel cancellation insurance on a website and also purchased medical, dental and accident insurance on both him and Gardner. Because both people were listed on the cancellation policy, the site automatically assigned Gardner the other insurance, he said. "You can't unselect anybody."
He said he routinely purchases such insurance when traveling. "I have children," he said. "I have a house ... I maxed out on everything ... I was selecting it for me and she got the same thing."
Giordano acknowledged he inquired about the policy two days after Gardner disappeared but said he was told by his then-attorney Michael Lopez to do so. Lopez told him that he could be billed for helicopters and scuba divers used to search for Gardner, he said. He told "Good Morning America" that a travel handbook issued by the Dutch government advises travelers, in the case of a missing person, to call authorities and then call their insurance company.
CNN's Dave Alsup contributed to this report.
