(CNN Student News) -- February 25, 2014
Will the U.S. government reduce the size of its military? It's a plan, but it's not a done deal. After we cover the details of that story, we'll show you what an urgent smog situation looks like in Beijing. And we'll visit Fashion Week in Milan to see how up-and-coming designers are trying to make a statement.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
How might the video and audio elements used to produce a breaking news story differ from those used to produce a feature story?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. deployment
2. Beijing
3. Fashion Week
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What action is the Pentagon seeking regarding the size and structure of the U.S. military? Why are some Department of Defense leaders proposing these moves? What do critics have to say about the possible consequences of these actions?
2. According to the video, how did Pascack Valley Regional High School District recently deal with what would have been snow days?
3. In terms of smog pollution, what does "Code Orange" mean? How has Code Orange smog impacted everyday life in Beijing, China? According to the Chinese government, what is behind the high smog level?
4. What is Fashion Week? What Italian city is currently hosting Fashion Week events? How is emerging talent making its mark in the fashion industry there?
Discussion Questions:
1. What are your thoughts on the proposed military cutbacks? Would you urge your congressional representative to vote for or against Secretary Hagel's proposal? Explain.
2. What do you think might be some benefits and drawbacks of virtual school days? Is this a practical solution to missed days at your school? Explain. Do you think you would like this approach, or would you rather make up the days in school?
3. How might new ideas from young professionals impact a business? What role do you think young people can play in the development of an industry like fashion? What role could veteran professionals play in the development of young talent? What kinds of things could young professionals learn from those who have been in the field for several years?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
