A Bronx middle school principal's job is in jeopardy after investigators say she failed to report student allegations of inappropriate conduct by a teacher who was later arrested and charged with sexually assaulting a female student.
A report released Thursday alleges that Angelyn Donald, principal at PS 386, was told by a number of students about note passing and even kissing between their 10-year-old classmate and her 40-year-old special education teacher, Anthony Criscuolo.
Criscuolo was arrested in June after the alleged victim's mother called police, according to NYPD Detective Marc Nell. He is currently jailed on charges of predatory sexual assault against a child.
The investigation was conducted by Richard Condon, special commissioner of investigation for the New York City School District.
When one student reported to Donald's office after witnessing the alleged victim and Criscuolo kissing and another told her about reading an allegedly sexually explicit note passed between the two, Donald told the students not to spread rumors and that she would look into the allegations, according to the report.
Another student told investigators that Donald demanded proof of the alleged conduct.
In an interview with investigators, Donald denied being notified of any inappropriate conduct by students.
CNN's efforts to reach Donald for a statement were unsuccessful.
She told the New York Daily News on Thursday morning, "I don't know anything about that" when asked about the alleged Criscuolo incidents. "I have no comment."
Donald has been at PS 386 since November 2011 and the principal there since June 2012, according to David Pena, deputy press secretary for the New York City Department of Education.
"We take these matters very seriously. Department of Education employees have an obligation to report any suspected incident of sexual misconduct. The principal will be reassigned away from the school and we will be seeking her termination," Pena said in a statement.
Investigators have turned their findings over to the Bronx County District Attorney's office, according to the report.
The charge against Criscuolo stemmed from an purported incident in June in the teacher's car, according to NYPD Deputy Commissioner Paul Browne.
Criscuolo, who taught 5th grade special education, was immediately reassigned away from the school and any students, Connie Pankratz, a spokeswoman for the Department of Education, told CNN.
Criscuolo began working in the New York City school system in 2002 as a substitute teacher in the Bronx. In his most recent position at PS 386, he was paid $72,990, Pankratz said.
Criscuolo's next court appearance will be January 24, 2014.
CNN's Chris Boyette and Leigh Remizowski contributed to this report
