Fixing the economy has long been at the top of everyone's presidential wish list.
Nearly half of all Americans named the economy the most important issue facing the nation today, followed by the deficit and health care, according to a current CNN poll.
But there are a lot of hot button issues Americans would like President Obama to address in his second term.
CNN iReport challenged people to finish the sentence, "In his second term, Obama should ..." and the responses were varied and surprising. Read below and watch the videos to see four of the most interesting.
Sworn in again, Obama lingers for last look
1. Rebuild infastructure
Cherry Davis, who has been struggling in the Los Angeles job market for the past couple of years, believes she knows the best way for the president to create jobs, taking inspiration from President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Davis thinks rebuilding the nation's infrastructure, part of what she terms "a modern New Deal," would be the best thing Obama could focus on in his new term. She voted for Obama this election.
"I believe that our country is behind and it's because we are not rebuilding our infrastructure," she said. "Instead, we are using the same methods that took place after the Great Depression. We need to rebuild our infrastructure from energy to roads to bridges."
"This would get America back to work building a larger tax base and bringing the middle class back. We need to keep up with technology from a nationwide high speed rail, to our power grid. Updating our nation will create jobs."
Davis said that she would take a job to help rebuild the country's infrastructure if one became available.
CNN.com commenter "Leftcoastrocky," agreed. "Our infrastructure has been neglected for a full generation and is making our economy less efficient and more expensive."
A tale of two terms: Unfinished business and battles ahead
2. Improve education in the United States
Education ranked fourth on our list of top issues during the election as voted by CNN.com readers and iReporters, so it was less of a surprise to see Obama voter and rising East Carolina University student Tyler Stocks mention this topic.
Stocks said he relies on financial aid for his education, as increasing college tuition and textbook prices have been a strain. Costs have risen as much as 8.3% at public universities, according to a 2011 U.S Department of Education study.
"I plan to transfer to a university in the summer but am worried about how to pay for it," he said. "Even with financial aid, education has become a matter of affordability and the whole idea of following your dreams is difficult when you can't afford to. I am hoping that the president can work to ensure that students such as I are afforded with the opportunity to receive a good education."
As David Evan Karasek put it in CNN.com's comments, "Educating our young to compete is not an option but a requirement for America's future."
Obama's second-term priorities
3. Take charge of breaking partisan gridlock
