Hunter Moore was once dubbed the "most hated man on the Internet" and the "Revenge Porn King." But now, the brash Californian is at risk of getting a new title.
A felon.
Moore, the founder of a now defunct "revenge porn" website, was indicted and is accused of hacking into people's e-mail accounts to steal nude photos to post online, federal authorities said.
Moore, 27, who the FBI says operated isanyoneup.com, was arrested in Woodland, California, on Thursday. Also arrested was Charles Evens, a 25-year-old man in Southern California believed to be connected to the scheme.
'You took the picture'
In 2012, way before this arrest, Moore talked to HLN's Dr. Drew about the website.
"The site was just born, actually," Moore said. "It was just a couple of friends and, you know, we had our hearts broken by a couple of girls, and we thought we would make a site. And it became Is Anyone Up. That's how it started. Of course. But when I did start the site, I was hurt, and so was my friends."
But later in the show, a woman who called in confronted Moore and said she regretted taking topless photos for a boyfriend and was devastated when the pictures appeared online.
"I don't know how you can point your finger at me," Moore responded." You took the picture. I mean, I've been justifying this in my head for over a year and a half of the site. But at the end of the day, it started with you. You took these pictures."
Site got out of hand
The FBI says Moore and Evens conspired to peddle "hundreds" of nude pictures, without getting permission in 2011 and 2012. But according to an indictment, Moore allegedly pushed Evens to hack into computers to get more sexually explicit photos.
Moore then would pay Evens for the photos and then post them on the site, according to the FBI.
Both suspects are named in a 15-count indictment with charges that include aggravated identity theft and conspiracy.
If convicted, they face up to five years in federal prison for each conspiracy and hacking-related charge.
Moore shut down the website in 2012 and sold it to an anti-bullying group.
"Taking down the site has been something I've wanted to do for months," he said. "It was just something I created that got out of hand. It was supposed to be for friends."
CNN's Mayra Cuevas contributed to this report.
