The "Rumours" are true: Christine McVie has returned to Fleetwood Mac.
The keyboardist and singer, who retired from the band in 1998, has rejoined the best-selling group, representative Liz Rosenberg confirmed Tuesday -- and there may be more to come, she said.
"Christine McVie has rejoined Fleetwood Mac and there may be an announcement about a potential tour for all the Macsters down the road," Rosenberg said.
McVie, 70, became part of Fleetwood Mac after the departure of founding guitarist Peter Green in 1970. She was then married to the group's bassist, John McVie.
35 years of 'Rumours'
In 1975, the three remaining members of the group -- the two McVies and drummer Mick Fleetwood -- added guitarist Lindsey Buckingham and singer Stevie Nicks. The five-person lineup became one of the most successful bands in pop history, with such best-selling albums as "Fleetwood Mac" (1975), "Rumours" (1977), "Tusk" (1979) and "Mirage" (1982).
McVie's lush, smoky voice can be heard on many of the band's biggest hits, including "Say You Love Me," "Don't Stop" (trading vocals with Buckingham), and "Think About Me."
Fleetwood Mac's success brought with it a number of romantic complications -- the McVies divorced, Buckingham and Nicks split up and Fleetwood had an affair with Nicks -- much of which was alluded to on their records.
The group was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1998.
'Rumours' still the 'perfect album'
Christine McVie left the band for a variety of reasons, not least because she missed her native England, she said in an interview.
"When we left to try to hack out a career in the States they assured me it would only be for six months. We never came back," she told the (UK) Sunday Express in 2004. "I'm 60 now and for the first time in my life I feel really at ease with myself, dare I say it, happy."
However, last year she told The Guardian she would be open to returning to the band.
"I miss them all," she said after joining Fleetwood Mac for some appearances at London's O2 arena. "If they were to ask me I would probably be very delighted."
John McVie diagnosed with cancer
