(CNN Student News) -- August 29, 2013
In Thursday's program, we consider global reaction to the suspected use of chemical weapons in Syria, and we share some student views on possible U.S. military action against the Middle Eastern country. We also dive into what scientists are calling the confirmation of a previously identified element. Plus, we report on the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, and we hear from a photographer who documented the 1963 March on Washington.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What questions should news organizations ask officials involved in the tension between Syria and the international community?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects from today's show:
1. international community
2. conviction
3. chemical element
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. What international organization is investigating whether chemical weapons have been used in Syria's civil war?
2. What is the atomic number of the man-made element ununpentium?
3. What was the name of the hurricane that struck the U.S. Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005?
Discussion Questions:
1. What options do you think the international community is weighing with regard to Syria? Do you think that public opinion will influence the decisions that leaders make? If so, to what extent? If not, why not?
2. What might be the significance of discovering new chemical elements? What do you think might be some of the challenges of this kind of research?
3. What do you think Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and his peers would say about civil rights in America since the 1963 March on Washington? What positives and negatives do you think they'd discuss? Explain.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
Asia
Syria
North America
New Orleans; Washington, D.C.; Ft. Hood, Texas
Europe
Bunol, Spain
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
