It's not uncommon for golfers of any level to hole in one, but it's not often that one player does it twice in two days at a top-level tournament.
Keith Horne shared the limelight with runaway leader Charl Schwartzel at the European Tour's Alfred Dunhill Championship in their native South Africa on Saturday, landing a repeat ace that earned him an unexpected Christmas present.
The 41-year-old will take home a luxury car following his hole-in-one at the par-three 12th at Leopard Creek in the third round.
"Unbelievable. It was the same club, but the wind was different, so I had to hit a full eight iron this time," he told the European Tour website after matching his Friday feat at the same hole.
"It was in all the way -- never looked like missing. Went in a bit faster this time, so I didn't get to admire it as much as yesterday, but it really got the adrenaline going much more."
Under competition rules, it would not have earned him a prize as the car is only on offer for holes-in-one on the final day, but sponsor BMW made an exception.
"I'm really chuffed. It was very kind of them to recognize that two holes-in-one were worthy of giving me the car," said Horne, who is still waiting for his first European Tour victory.
"I wasn't expecting it, so I'm over the moon. This was an unbelievable Christmas present and I couldn't have asked for a more beautiful car."
The world No. 246 signed for a four-under-par 68 that put him sixth ahead of Sunday's final round -- 12 shots behind 23rd-ranked Schwartzel.
Schwartzel won by 11 shots in Thailand last weekend for his first victory since the 2011 Masters, and he is poised for another convincing triumph after shooting 64 to go 10 clear.
"It is a nice comfort, and I'd rather be 10 ahead than nine ahead. Whatever lead you can build is great," said the 28-year-old, who won at the same venue eight years ago and has been runner-up there four times.
"We've all see what can happen in this game. I don't want to think about it -- if all goes well I'm going to celebrate."
Schwartzel had shared the halfway lead with Gregory Bourdy, but the Frenchman dropped back to second on 11-under 205 after slumping to a 74.
Branden Grace, who won four times on the European Tour last season with the first two coming on home soil in South Africa, was tied for third on 206 with Sweden's Kristoffer Broberg and Englishman Steve Webster.
Meanwhile, Europe will take a one-point lead against Asia into Sunday's final round of the Royal Trophy teams event in Brunei.
Led by former Ryder Cup captain Jose Maria Olazabal, the Europeans could not repeat Friday's strong opening and lost Saturday's fourball matches 3-1 for an overall 4½ -- 3½ scoreline.
The veteran Spaniard will play in the first of Sunday's deciding singles matches, taking on South Korea's Bae Sang-moon.
The eighth and final match will be between Ryder Cup winner Francesco Molinari and veteran Korean Y.E.Yang.
"Francesco Molinari played against Tiger Woods in the final match last time and got an excellent half point, so he was a good choice to go out last again," said Olazabal, referring to September's incredible final-day comeback against the U.S. at Medinah.
