(EW) -- Daniel Tosh isn't the sort of comedian who typically apologizes for anything. His hit Comedy Central series "Tosh.0" frequently explores potentially offensive territory with jokes that some would consider misogynistic or racist, and that his fans find hilarious. But it seems Tosh firmly strayed over the line during a recent live appearance.
The comedian tweeted an apology and a link to a blogger's account of his recent stand-up performance. "All the out of context misquotes aside, I'd like to sincerely apologize," Tosh wrote.
The original anonymous "friend of a friend" account would be too sketchy to use for a source if not for Tosh's tweet acknowledging there is some substance to it.
So keeping in mind that Tosh says he was misquoted, the original account was by a female audience member who says she was unfamiliar with Tosh's act when she caught his performance at the Hollywood Laugh Factory. She claims, "Tosh [started] making some very generalizing, declarative statements about rape jokes always being funny, how can a rape joke not be funny, rape is hilarious."
The audience member felt "provoked" and says she yelled out, "Actually, rape jokes are never funny!"
Continues the account: "After I called out to him, Tosh paused for a moment. Then, he says, 'Wouldn't it be funny if that girl got raped by like, 5 guys right now? Like right now? What if a bunch of guys just raped her...' and I, completely stunned and finding it hard to process what was happening but knowing I needed to get out of there, immediately nudged my friend, who was also completely stunned, and we high-tailed it out of there ... I should probably add that having to basically flee while Tosh was enthusing about how hilarious it would be if I was gang-raped in that small, claustrophobic room was pretty viscerally terrifying..."
Tosh tweeted: "The point I was making before I was heckled is there are awful things in the world but you can still make jokes about them," then added: "On a lighter note tonight's new episode of Tosh.0 will be featuring clowns."
Comedy Central had no comment.
See full story at EW.com.
CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly
© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
