The Spanish football season is set to get under way this weekend, after strike action by players which forced the opening round of fixtures to be postponed was ended on Thursday.
Players from Spain's top two divisions went on strike earlier this month, in a bid to force the league to increase the fund which protects players' wages should clubs experience financial difficulties.
The strike ended after the Spain's Professional Football League (LFP) guaranteed the Association of Spanish Footballers (AFE) payments owed to 200 players would be made.
"The Strike Committee of AFE and the LFP have reached an agreement which guarantees through various means the salaries of footballers," read a statement on the AFE's official web site.
How match fixing ruined the beautiful game
"After the meeting held today on August 25th, 2011 between the AFE and the LFP, the strike planned for Friday 26th, Saturday 27th, Sunday 28th and Monday 29th has been called off."
Another result of the talks is that players will now be able to leave their club if they are owed three months wages or more.
The resolution means the season will now begin with the second round of fixtures, with the first match of the campaign set to be Real Sociedad's trip to Sporting Gijon.
"We want to thank all the Spanish and non-Spanish footballers that play in our league championship," continued the statement.
"We want to let you know how proud we are of all of them, for their show of unity and solidarity without precedent that they gave for many companions who were going through truly tough times."
Reigning Spanish and European champions Barcelona will not start their domestic season until Monday, due to their participation in Friday's European Super Cup match against Porto.
Their opponents will be last term's third-place team Villarreal, who defeated Danish outfit Odense on Tuesday to reach the groups stages of the European Champions League.
Last season's Copa del Rey winners Real Madrid kick-off their season away to Real Zaragoza on Sunday.
As the strike in Spain came to an end, Italian players moved a step closer to similar action after the country's clubs voted in favor of changes to the collective contract signed by all footballers.
Teams in Italy's Serie A, the top division, and Serie B, the second tier, want to hand coaches the power to force unwanted players to train away from the first team.
They also want to introduce changes to the tax paid by the competition's highest earners.
"We dictated the precise conditions yesterday to renew the collective agreement. Our demands are reasonable and balanced," Serie A chief Maurizio Beretta told the league's official web site.
The row has cast doubt over whether this weekend's opening fixtures can take place, with champions AC Milan set to take on Cagliari on Saturday.
