LONDON, England  -- The British Home Secretary Jacqui Smith has been asked to intervene after Iraqi international Nashat Akram was refused a work permit.
Nashat Akram was hoping to become the first Iraqi footballer to play in England.
Akram starred in Iraq's Asian Cup-winning team last year and was set to play for Premier League Manchester City.
But the 24-year-old cannot come to the United Kingdom because a technicality in immigration rules for footballers.
To gain a work permit, the player's national side must be in the top 70 of the FIFA world rankings and Iraq has a highest ranking of 71.
Akram's supporters say this is because Iraq cannot play matches at home because of the security situation and are calling for the decision to be reversed.
Keith Vaz, a member of the ruling Labour party, said: "I shall be calling on the home secretary to review this decision.
"Here we have someone who wants to come and work legitimately, a role model for his country, whose presence here can heal divisions in Iraq.
"Parliament has given ministers the right to exercise their discretion and they should use it. "This case sends out all the wrong messages."
City boss Sven-Goran Eriksson told the club's Web site: "This is a big blow and a great disappointment to us. I have huge sympathy for Nashat. He is a very good footballer with an excellent international pedigree.
"He has now returned to the Middle East and we will keep in touch with him. He is somebody who we will maintain an interest in for the long term."
City have already lost an appeal to the Home Office ruling, but the Iraqi government has now taken up the cause. Government spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh told the Associated Press a letter has been sent to the British Ambassador in Iraq.
Midfielder Akram, who was born in Hilla, currently plays for Al-Ain in the United Arab Emirates.
He came to international prominence with his performances in the Asian Cup and became a symbol of hope at home with posters featuring a smiling Akram plastered on walls around Baghdad with the slogan "The dream came true because of our determination and zeal."
Earlier this month, Watford midfielder Al Bangura, from Sierra Leone, was granted a work permit after a decision to deport him was overturned following a well-supported campaign by football fans and a local member of parliament, Claire Ward. E-mail to a friend
