Former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky faces additional child sex charges involving two more alleged victims, bringing the total to 10, according to Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly.
Sandusky was arrested Wednesday and charged with four counts of involuntary deviate sexual intercourse and two counts of unlawful contact with a minor, allegedly involving two men who were boys at the time of the encounters.
"Today's criminal charges were recommended by a statewide investigating grand jury, based on evidence and testimony that was received following the initial arrest of Sandusky on November 5th," Kelly said in a news release.
Each count is punishable by up to 20 years in prison and $25,000 in fines.
The former coach also faces one new count of indecent assault and two counts of endangering a child's welfare, each punishable by up to seven years behind bars and $15,000 in fines. And Sandusky faces a single new count of indecent assault and two counts of corruption of minors.
"As in many of the other cases identified to date, the contact with Sandusky allegedly fit a pattern of 'grooming' victims," Kelly said in the news release. "Beginning with outings to football games and gifts; they later included physical contact that escalated to sexual assaults."
Sandusky, who maintains his innocence, will face a preliminary hearing at 8:30 a.m. Tuesday.
His attorney, Joe Amendola, blamed prosecutors for turning the case into "a media circus," adding that Sandusky would have willingly turned himself in.
Sandusky surrendered when he faced the initial charges.
Amendola, who learned of the new charges from a CNN producer in his office, said he was unhappy prosecutors did not make sure he was aware of the arrest before the media.
"I had a few words with the prosecutor," Amendola told CNN's Kathleen Johnston. "What I told them essentially is, if we are going to play hardball, both sides can play and I was a pretty good pitcher in my day."
"The question begs to be asked, why would the attorney general's office decide not to tell me ... and why did they go to his house and take him out in handcuffs?" Amendola said. "I think the answer is self-explanatory."
Amendola said he expected his client might not be able to post the $250,000 bail before Thursday because he didn't have time to make the arrangements.
The alleged victims -- identified by authorities as Victim 9 and Victim 10 -- are believed to have encountered Sandusky at The Second Mile charity, a nonprofit organization he founded for underprivileged children.
Victim 9 was between 11 and 12 years old when he first met the former coach back in 2004. Sandusky allegedly gave the boy gifts and money and took him to university football games, according to the grand jury presentment.
The alleged victim testified he would make overnight visits to Sandusky's home and stay in a basement bedroom. He described a pattern of sexual assaults over a period of years, the grand jury said.
"The victim testified that on at least one occasion he screamed for help, knowing that Sandusky's wife was upstairs, but no one ever came to help him," the report states.
Sandusky allegedly met Victim 10, then about age 10, in 1997 after a counselor recommended the boy attend the charity "because of difficulties in his home life." That witness said Sandusky performed oral sex on him and indecently touched him in an outdoor pool on campus, according to the grand jury.
A grand jury report made public last month detailed 40 charges of rape and molestation against the former coach in a child sex abuse scandal that, at the time, involved eight alleged victims.
Wednesday's announcement came on the heels of an attorney's statement on behalf of a 19-year-old man who stepped forward with claims that Sandusky gave him whiskey and sexually abused him, also in 2004.
The man pointed to a single incident at the university's football building, according to attorney Chuck Schmidt of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
He was 12 at the time and it allegedly occurred while he was staying overnight during Second Mile activities, the attorney said.
It is not clear if the man can be identified as Victim 9.
Schmidt says he plans to file a lawsuit against Penn State, the charity and Sandusky in coming weeks.
"He thought he was the only person this had ever happened to and when he found out there were others, that gave him enough courage to come forward," he said of his client.
The Second Mile, meanwhile, reported Wednesday that it had "lost significant financial support" in the wake of the scandal and plans to reduce its staff.
"We at The Second Mile are saddened by the need to make these cutbacks; however, our foremost concerns reside with the victims of the horrific abuse reported by the Attorney General and with the children we serve," the charity said in a written statement.
Sandusky, the longtime Penn State defensive coordinator, has said he only "horsed around" with the disadvantaged boys in his care.
An attorney for some of the alleged victims Monday blasted Sandusky's recent interview with The New York Times in which he attempted to clarify his relationships with young people.
"If I say, 'No, I'm not attracted to young boys,' that's not the truth," Sandusky said, according to the interview published Saturday. "Because I'm attracted to young people -- boys, girls."
His lawyer, who was present at the interview, spoke up at that point to note that Sandusky is "not sexually" attracted to them.
"Right. I enjoy -- that's what I was trying to say -- I enjoy spending time with young people. I enjoy spending time with people," Sandusky added. "I mean, my two favorite groups are the elderly and the young."
The former coach told the paper that prosecutors had twisted his decades of work with troubled youths as part of his charity.
CNN's Kathleen Johnston and Susan Candiotti and journalist Sara Ganim contributed to this report
