(CNN Student News) -- May 19, 2014
From flooding in the Balkans to wildfires in the U.S., CNN Student News shows you how rescuers are dealing with disasters. We also follow a great white shark on her journey after being tagged in Cape Cod, and we examine the fascinating linguistic landscape of the U.S. You'll also meet a CNN Hero who's showing people with medical setbacks the way to adventure.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
What factors may determine why some countries or regions of the world might receive more news coverage than others?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Balkans
2. shark tagging
3. "melting pot"
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Where is the nation of Serbia located? What natural disaster has forced the evacuation of more than 24,000 people there? Why hasn't everyone evacuated the flood area? What has caused the flooding? Who is helping with rescue efforts in the region? How has it affected neighboring Bosnia and Herzegovina?
2. What kind of disaster has the U.S. West Coast been dealing with since last week? What is helping California officials to make progress against the wildfires? How are Marine helicopters being used to fight wildfires there?
3. According to the video: What Florida location is sometimes called "the shark attack capital of the world"? Why? What kind of shark is Katharine? When and where did researchers first tag her? How many miles has this shark traveled so far this year? Why are scientists tagging sharks?
4. After English and Spanish, what is the most widely spoken language in U.S. homes? Does the United States have an official language? What is the official language of 28 U.S. states? After English and Spanish, what languages are spoken in different states and regions of the U.S.? People of what national heritage outnumber all others in the U.S.?
5. Who is Robyn Benincasa? What kind of an organization did she establish? What "label" does she say that her organization helps to give survivors?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is meant by the term "melting pot"? Why do you think that the United States is often referred to as a melting pot? What are some of the different groups who have contributed to the melting pot that is the United States? What are some of their contributions to American culture and history?
2. Do you speak a second language? If so, what is it? Why might this be a valuable skill to have even in a country where the second language you speak is not typically found? What industries and professions might offer jobs to individuals who can speak other languages?
3. Robyn Benincasa says of Project Athena, "It's not about the setback; it's about the comeback." What do you think she means? What personal qualities would you attribute to someone who suffers a setback but comes back even stronger?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
