McLaren have officially unveiled the car they hope will rocket Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button into the Formula One title reckoning in 2011.
The team's English drivers were on hand as their new MP4-26 car was assembled part-by-part with the help of competition winners in the center of the German capital Berlin on Friday.
McLaren have won just one world championship since 1998 and lagged behind Ferrari and Red Bull last year. But they are hoping a raft of new features on their car will propel them into the drivers' championship running.
Hamilton, the 2008 world title winner, finished fourth in 2010, 16 points behind the eventual winner, Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull. Button, who succeeded Hamilton as world champion in 2009, came 42 points off the pace in fifth.
The MP4-26 is packed with innovative features to help with its aerodynamics, including an electronically adjustable rear-wing system and an all-new electric hybrid KERS system, to comply with this season's F1 rule changes.
"We've seen it in the wind tunnel quite a lot, but it looks even better full-size," Hamilton said on Formula One official website.
"I think people saw a unique way of revealing our 2010 car, something that's never been done before. I hope the car proves just as innovative once we take to the track.
"I head into 2011 in a relaxed but determined frame of mind. I've spared nothing during my winter fitness preparations and, in many ways, I feel as fit, focused and refreshed as I did ahead of my first season in Formula One in 2007.
"So my aim for this year is to ensure that everything comes together in the best possible way and that, like last year, I'm able to fight for the title right down to the final race."
Hamilton's teammate Button said it was an "empowering feeling" having had an input on the design of McLaren's new car.
He said he was looking forward to testing the car in Spain next week, ahead of the opening race in Bahrain on March 13.
"Today really marks the beginning of our 2011 season after what seems a very long time away from the track," he said. "I can't wait to get behind the wheel of MP4-26 for the first time next week.
"It's strange to think that this is only the start of my second season at McLaren Mercedes, because I've felt so comfortable since joining the team last January.
"For the new season, I've not only got a year's experience under my belt, but I've also been able to offer input into the design and development of the new car -- something that I was naturally unable to do last year."
