Mike Milbury, a former National Hockey League player, coach and executive, is accused of assault and battery on a child stemming from an incident at a youth hockey game.
Hours after the allegations became public, NBC -- the network where Milbury serves as a studio analyst for the "Game of the Week" broadcast -- announced that he won't appear on air for an indeterminate period of time.
"In our discussions with Mike, we both came to the conclusion that he should remain off the air while focusing on his affairs," NBC spokesman Chris McCloskey said in a statement.
Milbury, 59, will be charged with one count each of assault and battery on a child, threatening to commit a crime and disorderly conduct, the Brookline, Massachusetts, police said Friday.
Daniel Rabinovitz, Milbury's Boston-based attorney, said Friday that his client "denies any allegations that there was an assault of any kind."
"He simply intervened in an altercation between his son and an opposing player," Rabinovitz said by e-mail. "No one was struck, no one was injured, and no one was threatened."
The alleged incident occurred at a skating rink in the suburban Boston community of Brookline. Milbury is an assistant coach for one of the pee wee hockey teams that had been playing, according to a police statement.
The police did not immediately offer any further details. Players on pee wee teams generally are 11 and 12 years old.
Born in Brighton, Massachusetts, Milbury attended high school in nearby Walpole and then went on to Colgate University. After playing three games with his hometown Bruins in the 1975-76 season, Milbury became a regular on the NHL team's roster the next season, remaining a key part of the team until his retirement in 1987.
He ended up playing 11 full seasons with the Bruins, compiling 49 goals, 189 assists and 1,552 penalty minutes over his career, according to the league's official website NHL.com. His also had a plus/minus rating of 173, meaning his team scored 173 more goals than it gave up when he was on the ice.
In 1979, Milbury participated in a hockey brawl when he joined his Bruins teammates in going into the stands to fight with fans in New York's Madison Square Garden. Videotape of that incident shows Milbury removing a shoe from one spectator and striking the fan with it.
Milbury then went on to become a coach and executive with the Bruins and the New York Islanders. Known for his provocative comments, he is a studio analyst for Boston-based NESN and TSN in Canada as well as NBC.
