Since its inception in 1992, the English Premier League has grown into one of football's most compelling and commercially successful domestic competitions.
To celebrate two decades of top-level soccer, the finest players and managers to have graced the competition have been honored at this week's "20 Seasons Awards."
The big winners were Manchester United, the team which dominated the era by collecting 12 championships.
United's veteran Welsh midfielder Ryan Giggs was named top player, having featured in every Premier League season and scoring 107 goals.
Did Manchester City win the league - or did United lose it?
United's legendary Scottish manager Alex Ferguson was also honored, having like Giggs been part of all 12 title triumphs.
"Being named as the best player in the 20 seasons of the Premier League is a tremendous honor for me," Giggs, 38, told the league's official website, "and very humbling when you consider some of the brilliant players who were nominated alongside me."
There was also an award for the Old Trafford team's star striker Wayne Rooney, who received the "Goal of 20 Seasons" gong for his stunning overhead kick against archrivals Manchester City in February 2011.
United's 4-3 defeat of neighbors City in September 2009, which included a winning goal from striker Michael Owen in stoppage time, was voted the finest Premier League match.
But despite United's dominance, Arsenal's championship-winning side of the 2003-04 season took home the Best Team prize.
Known as "The Invincibles," the London club is the only team to remain unbeaten throughout an entire Premier League campaign.
The full list of award winners feature in the gallery above. Do you agree with the judges' choices? Have your say in the comments section at the bottom of this page.
Player of 20 Seasons: Ryan Giggs
Manager of 20 Seasons: Alex Ferguson
Team of 20 Seasons: Arsenal 2003-04
Goal of 20 Seasons: Wayne Rooney (Manchester United) v Manchester City, February 2011
Match of 20 Seasons: Manchester United 4-3 Manchester City, September 2009
Public vote Fantasy Team of 20 Seasons: Peter Schmeichel (Man Utd), Gary Neville (Man Utd), Nemanja Vidic (Man Utd), Tony Adams (Arsenal), Ashley Cole (Arsenal/Chelsea), Ryan Giggs (Man Utd), Paul Scholes (Man Utd), Steven Gerrard (Liverpool), Cristiano Ronaldo (Man Utd), Thierry Henry (Arsenal) , Alan Shearer (Newcastle).
