AC Milan moved four points clear in Italy's Serie A with a 1-0 win at home to Fiorentina on Saturday night, as Zlatan Ibrahimovic was again the hero.
The Sweden forward scored the winning penalty in last weekend's derby clash with Inter, and he settled this match with a spectacular effort in first-half injury-time.
He flicked the ball up and hooked it over his shoulder into the far corner to give Milan a ninth win in 13 league games, and put pressure on second-placed Lazio to win at Parma on Sunday.
Milan, who travel to French club Auxerre in the Champions League on Tuesday, earlier had the ball in the net through Robinho but the Brazilian forward was ruled offside.
Milan coach Massimiliano Allegri omitted Ronaldinho from his starting line-up, having been angry that the Brazilian was pictured out partying late at night during the week, but brought him on as a late substitute.
Fiorentina stayed in 12th place on 15 points after a sixth defeat this season.
Roma claimed third place in the table with a 2-0 win at home to Udinese, despite having Nicolas Burdisso sent off with 10 minutes to play.
Young French winger Jeremy Menez gave the capital club a 24th-minute lead with a fine solo effort as he took the ball from just inside the visitors' half, beat two opponents and curled a shot past goalkeeper Samir Handanovic.
The 23-year-old then provided Roma's second goal in the 56th minute, finding Marco Borriello inside the penalty area -- and the Italy striker beat the Slovenian at his near post.
Roma coach Claudio Ranieri took off both goalscorers with half an hour to play, ahead of Tuesday's Champions League visit by Bayern Munich.
Argentine defender Burdisso was sent off after an altercation in the penalty area, and Udinese's Chile midfielder Alexis Sanchez then hit the post before teammate German Denis had an effort ruled out for offside.
The defeat left Udinese in eighth place on 17 points.
On Sunday, fourth-placed Napoli host Bologna in the late match, fifth-placed Juventus travel to Genoa in the early kickoff and defending champions Inter visit Chievo.
