Liverpool's dramatic week ended in disappointment as Everton claimed a 2-0 victory in the Merseyside derby at Goodison Park on Sunday to leave their rivals second from bottom of the Premier League table.
Roy Hodgson's Liverpool side came into the match on the back of a tumultuous last seven days which saw the club finally sold to the owners of the Boston Red Sox baseball team.
And all the disruption off the pitch continues to transmit into poor results on the pitch, as goals either side of half-time from Tim Cahill and Mikel Arteta gave Everton a deserved win.
Both teams came into the match struggling near the foot of the table, with Everton 17th and Liverpool 18th in the 20-team division.
However, the home side dominated throughout and took a deserved lead when Tim Cahill thundered home a shot after good work on the right from Seamus Coleman.
And the points were secured five minutes after the interval when Spanish midfielder Arteta was given too much space on the edge of the area to fire home through a crowd of players.
The result lifts Everton up to 11th place but only goal difference now separates Liverpool from lying bottom of the table, their lowest-ever Premier League position.
Meanwhile, Manchester City are up to second place in the table after a hard-fought 3-2 win at newly-promoted Blackpool.
After a goalless first half, City took the lead whan captain Carlos Tevez flicked home a cross from substitute David Silva.
Blackpool levelled when Marlon Harewood glanced home a Charlie Adam free-kick, but City immediately went down the other end and Tevez fired home a deflected shot to restore the visitors' lead.
Silva then scored a delightful third goal, skipping past a couple of challenges before curling home a superb strike, before the home side pulled one back in injury time through Gary Taylor-Fletcher to set up a nervy final two minutes.
Chelsea continue to lead the table with 19 points from their eight games, but big-spending City are now just two points behind the defending champions on 17 points.
Arsenal, Manchester United and Tottenham are all level in third place on 14 points, with the Gunners ahead on goal difference.
