Hillary Clinton's midterm schedule -- which until now has been marked just by a handful of closed fundraisers and events -- is about to fill up with commitments to Democrats across the country.
Democratic sources familiar with the Clinton campaign plan say the former Secretary of State will help raise money and excitement for a number of vulnerable Democrats in the month before voters go to the polls in November. The states Clinton will campaign are also markedly important states in presidential races -- namely Iowa, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania -- a fact that further raises the specter of Clinton running for president in 2016.
Clinton will headline her first public campaign rally next Thursday, when she travels to Philadelphia to stump for Tom Wolf, Pennsylvania Democratic gubernatorial nominee. The event is focused specifically on women supporting Wolf, a voting bloc that Democratic operatives hope Clinton can help turnout in November.
"Secretary Clinton is the right person at the right time for Democrats who are focused on turning out the vote and persuading undecided voters, particularly women, in the remaining days of the election," said Guy Cecil, the director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
Clinton will also headline events and fundraisers for Democratic senate candidates in Kentucky, Iowa, New Hampshire, Georgia, North Carolina and Colorado, according to a Democratic source.
For months Clinton aides have said the former secretary of state will be active in the midterms and these newest additions, which were first reported by Politico, appear to be proof of that.
"Hillary knows firsthand the importance of keeping our majority in the Senate and I couldn't be happier that she is helping us turn out the Democratic vote," Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said.
Clinton is not helping all vulnerable Democrats in 2014, however. Missing from her list of events are tough Democratic races in Louisiana and Alaska.
Former President Bill Clinton is headed to Arkansas this weekend to campaign for Sen. Mark Pryor and other state Democrats. Hillary Clinton, according to Erik Dorey, Pryor's campaign spokesman, will not attend those events but will host a fundraiser for the senator in New York next week.
Clinton will also stump for a number of Democratic gubernatorial hopefuls, according to a source familiar with the planning.
While in New Hampshire to stump for Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, Clinton will also headline an event for Gov. Maggie Hassan and the all female ticket in the critical presidential primary state. Clinton's trip to New Hampshire will be Nov. 2, a Democratic source in the state tells CNN.
A Grimes campaign official said Clinton will be in Kentucky for a series of events in mid-October.
Clinton is also set to campaign for Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn next week and will headline an event for Martha Coakley, Massachusetts' gubernatorial hopeful, before election day.
On Thursday, Clinton was in Florida to stump for Charlie Crist.
- CNN's Brianna Keilar and Rachel Streitfeld contributed to this report.
