Czech authorities announced Saturday that they have arrested a 29-year-old man who expressed admiration for Anders Behring Breivik, the self-declared ultranationalist who has admitted killing 77 people in Norway last summer.
Video broadcast on Saturday by CT24, a public broadcast station in the Czech Republic, showed the handcuffed suspect flanked by police. Dressed in a short-sleeved shirt, the unidentified man appears to be smiling during much of the videotaped walk.
Tomas Tuhy, a regional director of the Czech Republic Police, said authorities confiscated "police or prisoner" uniforms during their search of the suspect's apartment, as well as some police equipment. Pictures published on CT24's website showed explosive detonators, firearms, ammunition, and what appears to be a police uniform, that were seized as part of the investigation.
The man from Ostrava, the Czech Republic's third largest city located in the eastern part of the country near the Polish border, may have intended to pass himself off as a policeman when waging an attack, police said, as reported by the Czech News Agency.
Ostrava police chief Radovan Vojta told reporters Saturday that authorities exercised "increased caution" when they went into the suspect's apartment, fearful it might have been rigged with explosives.
The suspect "sympathizes probably with known (killer) Anders Breivik," said Tuhy in a press conference covered by state broadcaster CT24. The Czech News Agency added, citing police, that the suspect indicated in e-mails that he was an admirer of Breivik.
"Of course we are checking out that connection," Tuhy said, declining to elaborate on how the Czech and Norwegian men might be linked.
According to Norwegian authorities, Breivik set off a fertilizer bomb outside the prime minister's office on July 22, 2011, killing eight people. He then took a ferry to Utoya Island, the site of a Labour Party youth camp where more than 700 young adults were meeting, and roamed the island shooting and killing 69 people.
Breivik has admitted to carrying out the killings, which he says were necessary to protect Norway from multiculturalism. He is on trial, with authorities' determination of his sanity central to what happens next in the case.
The Czech suspect was arrested August 10, according to the Czech News Agency, though authorities didn't announce it until Saturday.
