A porn actress who was with actor Charlie Sheen in a New York hotel when, according to police, he became emotionally disturbed this week wants his probation on a Colorado assault conviction revoked because of the incident, her spokesman said Thursday.
Christina Walsh, who has made adult films under the name Capri Anderson, will fly to Aspen, Colorado, on Monday to speak with Pitkin County officials about the incident, which left her "pretty shaken up," spokesman Kevin Blatt said.
Sheen, 45, spent several hours in a New York hospital Tuesday after police responded to an early morning call about "an emotionally disturbed person" at the Plaza Hotel, a law enforcement source said.
Sheen's representative blamed an "adverse allergic reaction" to a medication for the hospitalization.
Police did not file any criminal charges against Sheen and none are expected, a New York Police Department spokesman said.
While Blatt offered no details about what happened in Sheen's hotel room that left Walsh "pretty scared," he called it "a hard situation." Walsh, 22, is a "young girl" who has "never been in a situation like this before," he said.
Sheen's three months of unsupervised probation from Pitkin County ends on November 2, according to an Aspen court official.
Walsh has not contacted anyone in the prosecutor's office about the incident or her plans to meet with them, according to Chief Deputy District Attorney Arnie Mordkin.
Without a criminal investigation -- which hasn't happened in New York -- a probation violation case could not be made, Mordkin said.
Sheen's conviction there stemmed from his arrest last Christmas Day after his wife, Brooke Mueller, told Aspen police he threatened her with a knife at their holiday home.
A Colorado judge allowed the actor to count his time at a Malibu, California, rehab center toward a 30-day jail sentence after he entered a guilty plea in August to a misdemeanor third-degree assault charge. Sheen initially faced felony domestic violence charges; they were reduced by a plea deal.
The son of actor Martin Sheen, Charlie Sheen signed a contract last summer to continue with his hit CBS sitcom "Two and a Half Men."
CNN's Brittany Kaplan and Rachel Wells contributed to this report.
