(CNN)It's three down, two to go for Tina Maze.
Monday's gold medal win in the Alpine Combined, to go with a silver in the Super-G and gold in the Downhill at this year's Alpine World Ski Championships, means Maze is on the verge of making history.
Should success in the Giant Slalom and Slalom follow then the 31-year-old will become the first woman to ever win five individual medals at a single World Championships, with Lasse Kjus of Norway in 1999 the only man to have achieved the feat.
"I'm more than halfway, so three is done, missing two more," Maze told NBC Sports. "I hope I can do it, for sure. It's not easy."
The Slovenian's latest triumph at Beaver Creek saw her prevail by 0.22 seconds in an event that combines the downhill and slalom runs, with Austrian duo Nicole Hosp and Michaela Kirchgasser taking silver and bronze respectively.
Leading after the morning's downhill section, Maze secured the fifth fastest time in the afternoon's slalom run to finish in a combined time of 2:33.37 to secure gold.
Maze, the World Cup overall points leader, landed a fourth world title but her first in the Alpine Combined event -- and she celebrated the success with a cartwheel across the finish area.
"I'm totally exhausted, it's a tough program and late start time for the slalom and it's also really warm," Maze told the International Ski Federation's official website.
"But winning is always amazing and now there's time to recover and enjoy. Even though I'm tired I did my best and I'm happy with the win."
Her task had been made easier following the disqualification of Lindsey Vonn, who was seen breaking into tears after straddling a gate during her slalom run.
The American last week won her first medal at a World Championships in four years with bronze in the Super-G, but Thursday's Giant Slalom now looks to be her only chance of claiming gold at Beaver Creek, having also finished fifth in the Downhill.
"Just try to forget today as fast as possible and move on to the next race," Vonn told Associated Press.
Maze will also be readying herself for the Giant Slalom event, knowing that if she can replicate Monday's form there, as well as in Saturday's Slalom, then her place in the record books will be assured.
