World No.1 Novak Djokovic and 16-time grand slam champion Roger Federer have been drawn to meet in the semifinals of the French Open -- setting up the likely prospect of a repeat of their classic 2011 clash at Roland Garros.
An inspired Federer ended Djokovic's unbeaten streak and dashed the Serbian's chances of the grand slam before losing in the final to Rafael Nadal.
Friday's draw for the second grand slam of the season saw Nadal in the same half of the draw as fourth seed Andy Murray of Britain, again setting up the chance of a re-run of 2011.
Spain's Nadal will be bidding for a record seventh French Open title this year and opens against Simone Bolelli while Djokovic also faces Italian opposition in Potito Starace.
Federer must get past Germany's Tobias Kamke to earn a potentially tricky second round clash with Argentina's David Nalbandian.
Big-hitters Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina or Czech Tomas Berdych could also provide Federer with tough obstacles in his section of the draw.
Murray, out of sorts and struggling with injury is drawn to face home hope Richard Gasquet of France, who beat him at last week's Italian Open.
The women's draw has pitted second seed Maria Sharapova and old rival Serena Williams in the same quarter and a possible quarterfinal clash.
Sharapova, yet to win the French Open, warmed up by taking the Italian Open crown, while Williams has claimed titles in Charleston and Madrid on the clay.
But 2002 winner Williams has a tough draw and is seeded to meet Dane Caroline Wozniacki in the last 16.
Defending champion Li Na of China, beaten by Sharapova in the Rome final last weekend, faces Romanian Sorana Cirstea in the first round and could meet 2011 Wimbledon winner Petra Kvitova in the quarters.
But Kvitova will probably have to get past 2010 winner and last year's runner-up Francesca Schiavone to progress that far.
Top seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus has been paired with Italian Alberta Brianti in the first round as she looks to secure her second consecutive grand slam after her Australian triumph.
World No.3 Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland is drawn to face Venus Williams in the second round.
The action starts Sunday in the French capital.
