(CNN Student News) -- October 9, 2013
CNN Student News takes a by-the-numbers look at the partial U.S. government shutdown, as it stretches into its second week. We also report on Russia's upcoming Winter Olympics, and we discuss an outbreak of Salmonella. Plus, we explain why the $100 bill got a facelift, and we meet a CNN Hero who aims to help disabled American veterans.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Do opinion polls have value in a news report? If so, in what way? If not, why not?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Olympic flame
2. Salmonella
3. counterfeit money
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. According to the report, what percentage of federal workers are currently furloughed as part of the partial U.S. government shutdown?
2. Where are the Winter Olympics being held next year? How is that city preparing for the games?
3. What is known about a recent Salmonella outbreak in the U.S.?
Discussion Questions:
1. Do you think the partial U.S. government shutdown will have a political impact on members of Congress and the president? If so, how? If not, why not?
2. Why do you think that authorities have concerns about counterfeit money? What could they do to combat it? What are your thoughts on the new U.S. $100 bill?
3. What kinds of resources might wounded service members need upon their return to the U.S.? How might communities and organizations help meet these needs?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Washington, D.C.
Europe
Russia
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
