A woman who survived last week's Spanair airline crash in Madrid left the hospital Tuesday, saying she was "born again" by the disaster.
Beatriz Reyes has been released from hospital after surviving the plane crash which killed 154 people.
Beatriz Reyes, 41, has been credited with saving two of the three children who survived the crash which killed 154 people.
She is the second survivor to be sent home, while 16 others remained hospitalized Tuesday.
The first to leave the hospital was a 6-year-old boy, apparently one of the children Reyes helped in the moments after the Spanair MD-82 airliner crashed on takeoff from Madrid's Bajaras airport Wednesday.
"I saw some kids and I got them out," Reyes said. "I think anyone would have done it."
All 18 who survived were seated in the front section of the plane, the only part not to catch fire. Reyes was in seat 5-D.
She said she remained conscious throughout the crash.
"I felt a strong blow and then my stomach went up and down," she said. "That's when I knew there was an accident."
She said it was ironic that she was treated in the maternity ward at Hospital Infanta Sofia in the Madrid suburb of San Sebastian de los Reyes.
"On the 20th of August, I have been born again," she said.
She was returning home from a vacation in Germany when she boarded the flight to the city of Las Palmas in the Canary Islands.
Reyes said she will continue to fly, a necessity for her job as a bank executive in the Canary Islands.
Going home to the Canary Islands, she said, will be hard since the bodies of many of the dead will be arriving there with her.
Initially, there were indications an engine might have caught fire as the plane was taking off, but a source familiar with the investigation said that an airport video showed the plane lifting off, veering sharply right, and then dragging or skidding down the right side of the runway. There is a cloud of dust, the source said, followed by a fireball.
The crash remains under investigation.
CNN's Madrid Bureau Chief Al Goodman contributed to this report.
