Australian teenager Nick Kyrgios lit up Wimbledon with his stunning victory over Rafael Nadal and his prodigious talents were on display again Tuesday in his first appearance at a Masters 1000 tournament.
The 19-year-old's charge to the quarterfinals at the grass court grand slam saw him leap to number 70 in the world and led to a wild card entry to the Rogers Cup in Toronto, one of the prestigious series of ATP events below grand slams.
His first round opponent was the experienced Colombian Santiago Giraldo, who is currently at a career-high 30 and a tight match ensued.
Kyrgios had to recover from a break down in the opener to force a tiebreak, which he won by seven points to three.
The second set was also tight until Kyrgios gained a crucial break through on Giraldo's service to run out a 7-6 7-5 winner in one hour 35 minutes.
He will next face a big test in the form of eighth seed and two-time grand slam winner Andy Murray, who is also playing his first tournament since his disappointing exit at Wimbledon in his title defense.
Kyrgios eventually lost in the last eight at Wimbledon to Milos Raonic of Canada and the sixth seed and home favorite has learned his second round opponent.
American Jack Sock, 21, beat Austria's Jurgen Melzer 6-1 6-3 to earn his chance against Raonic after his second win at ATP Masters 1000 level.
The tournament also sees the return to action of Wimbledon champion and world number one Novak Djokovic and beaten finalist Roger Federer.
Nadal is sidelined with a wrist injury which is hampering his preparations for the final grand slam of the season at the U.S. Open.
The women's version of the Rogers Cup is being played in Montreal and Venus Williams snapped a surprising 19-year-old win drought on Canadian soil with a first round victory.
The veteran American is playing for the fifth time in the tournament and had suffered early exits on all four previous occasions.
Russian Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova looked set to extend that sorry run when she leveled at a set apiece, but Williams dominated the decider to win 6-1 3-6 6-2.
Her sister Serena, fresh from her success in Stanford at the weekend, is the top seed and defending champion at the tournament, which alternates between Toronto and Montreal.
