People in Kansas and Oklahoma expected to shiver because of the coming cold wave, but nobody prepared for the shaking caused Wednesday afternoon by an earthquake of magnitude 4.8.
"It moved me and my recliner about eight inches across the floor," a caller told the Sedgwick County 911 dispatch center, according to CNN affiliate KSN in Wichita, Kansas.
"It shook us pretty good here downtown," the dispatcher replied.
No injuries or heavy damage were reported, although quakes of that magnitude are capable of causing moderate damage. A number of less intense earthquakes occurred on Wednesday, the USGC said.
Measuring the magnitude of earthquakes
The epicenter was 33 miles southwest of Wichita, the U.S. Geological Survey said on its website. It was felt in several other states, as far away as Irving, Texas,  the USGS said in a tweet.
"We had put our Christmas tree up and every ornament shaking," said Kristi Clinage of Medford, Oklahoma. "In fact, my dog was sleeping in the chair. He came over and looked me like, 'What's going on?' "
Clinage said she had no damage at her coffee shop but noticed several people had posted on Facebook photos of cracked walls. Medford is about 20 miles south of the Kansas border.
What to know about earthquakes
Grace Fisher, an employee at Hired Man's Grocery & Grill in Conway Springs, Kansas, was at work when the quake hit.
"I was standing at the register," she said. "There are racks of candy nearby. They were quivering and shaking."
Her first thought was that something had hit the building, but one of the customers said, "Oh my God, that was an earthquake," Fisher said.
Callers to KSN told about their earthquake experience.
"The earthquake here in Derby was the largest I have ever felt," said Bart Chilcott. "The shaking was violent at first and then slowly tapered off after about 30 seconds. What amazed me most was the roaring sound it made."
CNN affiliate WIBW in Topeka, Kansas, said one caller reported cracked walls in his house. Security video from a liquor store showed shaking bottles, but none falling.
CNN's Dave Alsup contributed to this report.
