Actress Amanda Bynes stared with a blank, wide-eyed expression at reporters seated behind her in a New York courtroom Tuesday.
It was a brief court appearance for the 27-year-old Bynes, required only so the judge could set a date for another pretrial hearing. She faces three misdemeanor charges relating to an incident involving a bong allegedly tossed from her Manhattan apartment on May 23.
Bynes wore a waist-length aqua and blonde-colored wig from her unusual collection of hair pieces, a tank top, sweatpants and sneakers as she stood silently before the Manhattan Criminal Court judge.
She left with her lawyer after the judge set her next court hearing for September 26. A date for a trial, if necessary, has not been decided.
Police charged Bynes with tampering with physical evidence, reckless endangerment and criminal possession of marijuana after they were called to her building in Manhattan's theater district. The building manager reported she was smoking an "illegal substance" in the lobby, police said.
Police knock down Bynes sex harassment claim
Bynes had headed back to her apartment by the time police arrived, but she let officers in when they knocked on the door, they said. Once inside, the officers noticed a bong and other marijuana paraphernalia sitting on a coffee table, which Bynes immediately started to throw out a window, police said.
Police charged her with tampering with physical evidence, reckless endangerment and criminal possession of marijuana. The endangerment stems from the possibility that the tossed paraphernalia could have hit someone below.
Bynes told followers on Twitter that the police account was "all lies." Her story is that she was "sexually harassed by one of the cops the night before last" -- the same police officer who, she wrote, ended up arresting her.
New York police later said an internal affairs investigation found no evidence of the sexual harassment claim.
Bynes has a DUI case pending in Southern California, while a pair of separate hit-and-run charges against her were dismissed late last year. She was sentenced to three years' probation for driving on a suspended license in May.
A young teenager when she burst on the scene as the lead in Nickelodeon's "The Amanda Show," Bynes also starred alongside Jennie Garth in the sitcom "What I Like About You." She later scored roles in movies, including "Hairspray" and "Easy A."
Amanda Bynes in trouble, again
CNN's Doug Ganley contributed to this report.
