Kaka underlined his commitment to AC Milan with two goals in a 4-1 Serie A win at Bologna on Sunday when on-loan David Beckham claimed his first goal in Italian football.
Kaka scored twice for AC Milan days after rejecting a world record transfer to Manchester City.
Brazilian star Kaka, playing his first match since the collapse of a  proposed world record transfer to Premier League Manchester City, converted from the penalty spot after 17 minutes and added a spectacular second two minutes before half-time.
Kaka's double took the limelight away from former England captain Beckham who made his mark on the hour as Milan kept up the pressure on top two, city rivals Inter and Turin-based Juventus.
Beckham moved to Milan from Los Angeles Galaxy earlier this month and found the target as coach Carlo Ancelotti marked 400 games in charge of the club.
The former Mancherster United star is clearly enjoying his stay in Italy and there have been suggestions he could extend his stay.
"I can't say what will happen," PA Sport quoted him as saying on Sunday. "Even if my contract says that I'll be here until March. We'll have to see.
"At the moment I'm enjoying this experience. I'm at one of the biggest clubs in the world. And having won gives us confidence to continue."
He added: "It's great to score my first goal -- I will keep this jersey. It's special to play for Milan and also to score, but what's most important is that we won."
Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti was delighted with Beckham's performance, but insists the club can do nothing to keep him at the San Siro.
However, he claims the 33-year-old holds his future in his own hands. "If he said 'we'll see' it means he's thinking about staying," Ancelotti told Sky Italia. "However, our hands are tied as he has a clear contract."
Bologna took the lead through a Marco Di Vaio penalty after nine minutes and Clarence Seedorf equalised after Kaka's effort had been spilled by goalkeeper Francesco Antonioli.
AS Roma closed to within three points of fourth, the final Champions League qualifying position, with a stunning 3-0 win at Napoli.
Centre-backs Philippe Mexes (18) and Juan (32) gave Roma a two-goal lead at the interval and Montenegro forward Mirko Vucinic added the third four minutes into the second half.
Roma are now only three points behind Genoa who were surprisingly held to a 1-1 home draw by Catania who led through a 67th-minute goal from Jorge Martinez. Diego Milito replied six minutes later.
Roma have won eight of their last 10 Serie A matches following an awful start to the season where they won only two and lost six of their first 10 games.
Fabio Simplicio scored twice as Palermo defeated Udinese 3-2 while strugglers Lecce and Torino shared six goals.
