Juventus retained their unbeaten record and went back to the top of Italy's Serie A table with a 2-0 victory over 10-man Cesena on Sunday.
Cesena were 17 minutes from claiming a hard-earned point until Claudio Marchisio and Arturo Vidal played a neat one-two before Marchioso fired home from the edge of the area.
The visitors' fate was sealed in controversial circumstances seven minutes from time with goalkeeper Francesco Antonioli was sent off for an innocuous-looking coming together with Emanuele Giacherini.
Poland and Ukraine primed for Euro 2012 kick-off
With Cesena having made all their substitutions, defender Giullermo Rodriguez had to go in goal and his first job was to pick Vidal's penalty out of the net.
The result leaves Juventus two point clear of AC Milan and Udinese, who both won earlier in the weekend, with 13 matches played.
Lazio are a further five points behind in fourth place, although they can close the gap against Novara on Monday.
In other matches, Roma finished with a remarkable eight men as they crashed to a 3-0 humiliation at Fiorentina.
Juan was the first to be dismissed, after giving away a spot-kick from which Stevan Jovetic scored.
Alessandro Gamberini's header made it 2-0 before Roma had Fernando Gago sent off for a second booking.
To complete Roma's misery, they had Bojan Krkic dismissed late on for handball on the line and Santiago Silva netted Fiorentina's second penalty.
Meanwhile, Victor Ibarbo scored a stunning individual goal to give Cagliari a 1-0 victory over Catania for their first win in eight games.
In other news, Lecce confirmed on Sunday that they had sacked coach Eusebio Di Francesco and replaced him with Serse Cosmi.
Lecce, who are bottom of the table with just eight points from 13 matches, made the decision after Saturday's 4-2 defeat at Napoli.
Di Francesco becomes the eighth coaching casualty of the Italian Serie A season.
Meanwhile, in Spain's La Liga, on-loan Arsenal striker Carlos Vela hit a spectacular late goal as Real Sociedad scored twice in the last two minutes to snatch a 3-2 home win over Malaga.
Vela's overhead kick made it 2-2 before Uruguayan John Ifran grabbed a last-gasp winner to lift Sociedad up to 13th place.
In other matches, Falcao hit his eighth goal of the season to help Atletico Madrid beat Rayo Vallecano 3-1, a result that moves them up to eighth in the table.
And a goal on half-time from on-loan Nigerian Odion Ighalo gave Granada a 1-0 success over Real Zaragoza, who are now bottom of the table on 10 points after the defeat.
