Real Madrid and Barcelona face disciplinary action from European football's governing body following Wednesday's fiery Champions League semifinal between the two Spanish clubs.
UEFA said on Thursday that Real coach Jose Mourinho could be punished for being sent to the stands after Pepe was sent off, and then making an "inappropriate statement" after his team's 2-0 home first-leg defeat.
His club could also be in trouble due to missile-throwing by fans and a pitch invasion at the Santiago Bernabeu, as well as Portugal international Pepe's dismissal for a lunge at Barcelona's Daniel Alves.
Barcelona may also be charged at the May 6 hearing -- which comes after Tuesday's second leg in the Catalan capital -- due to the sending-off of reserve goalkeeper Jose Pinto during a halftime scuffle between both sets of players.
CNN Blog: Has Jose gone too far this time?
Barca later said on Thursday that the club would report Mourinho to UEFA for his astonishing tirade, which came despite the European body delaying the post-match interviews in order to give both teams time to calm down.
Lionel Messi's double saw Barca plant one foot in the final, with both goals coming after makeshift midfielder Pepe was sent off by German referee Wolfgang Stark.
Mourinho, who was sent to the stands after the red card for his ironic applause at the match officials, suggested that UEFA shows favoritism towards Barcelona.
He claimed Barca's relationship with world children's charity UNICEF, and with Spanish football federation president Angel Maria Villar, contributed to their "power" and that the return leg next week was "mission impossible."
Barcelona's official website reported Mourinho as saying: "Josep Guardiola is a fantastic football coach, but he has won one Champions League which would embarrass me after the scandalous goings on at Stamford Bridge and this year if he wins it again it will be after the scandalous goings on at the Bernabeu.
"I don't know if it's the UNICEF publicity or the friendship of Villar at UEFA, where he is vice-president, I don't know if it's because they are so nice, but they have got great power. The rest of us have no chance."
Messi magic sinks 10-man Real Madrid
After an extraordinary meeting of the club's board of directors, Barcelona spokesman Tony Freixa said a complaint would be made to UEFA's disciplinary committee.
"We want to defend the history, prestige and reputation of our members, fans, players, coaches and directors, who with their hard work and their effort succeeded in winning the Champions League in 2009," Freixa said.
"It's unacceptable that someone questions our titles and our links with UNICEF."
The build-up to the match had been dominated by a war of words between Mourinho and Guardiola.
Barca's players have been criticized for the pressure they put on the referee during the match but Guardiola refused to be drawn on Mourinho's outburst, telling reporters: "I have nothing to say."
Mud-slinging continued between the players, however, with Real striker Emmanuel Adebayor telling Spanish newspaper AS: "Whenever you play against Barca, whenever you touch them, they are on the floor crying like a baby."
Real also responded on the club's official website, posting a video that purportedly shows that Pedro made contact with the ball and not Alves.
Madrid also claimed that Barcelona players Pedro and Sergio Busquets overly reacted when challenged by Alvaro Arbeloa and Marcelo during the game.
The website published quotes from England footballers Rio Ferdinand and Michael Owen condemning Alves for diving, along with Irish golf star Rory McIlroy and NFL player Chad Ochocinco -- who also plays soccer.
