Bosnia striker Edin Dzeko is determined to justify his reported $42 million price-tag and help Manchester City win trophies after completing his long-expected move to the English Premier League club.
The 24-year-old has signed until mid-2015 after sealing his switch from former German champions Wolfsburg on Friday night.
He is not eligible to play in City's FA Cup third-round tie at second division Leicester on Sunday, but is looking forward to boosting the club's title challenge in the league against Wolverhampton on January 15.
"Manchester City were my first choice and only choice," Dzeko told the club's website. "I was always attracted most to joining them. I have been linked with them for a long time and have watched them a lot on television.
"They have been playing well this season and now the speculation is over, I just want to do my best."
Who will be the bargain buys of the January sales?
Dzeko became Robert Mancini's ninth signing since taking over in December 2009, and the Italian coach's first this year.
He had been linked with Italian club Juventus and Manchester United, and his arrival could mean that Togo international Emmanuel Adebayor and Paraguay's Roque Santa Cruz leave City this month.
"City are playing for first place in the Premier League and that is what I want," Dzeko said. "I am excited to play alongside players such as Carlos Tevez and Yaya Toure, whom I have only seen on the television, and to be in the same team as players I have played against such as Jerome Boateng and Vincent Kompany.
"They will help me achieve my goal to be better in the future. I want to show the fans why the club paid the money for me. Everyone expects goals and I want to score them, but most of all I want to contribute to a successful team."
In Saturday's other transfer news, former City boss Mark Hughes boosted his Fulham squad with the signing of midfielder Steve Sidwell from Aston Villa on an initial six-month contract.
Struggling Villa have signed Tottenham's England Under-21 defender Kyle Naughton on loan for the rest of this season.
Manchester United's 19-year-old Italian striker Federico Macheda has returned home on loan with Sampdoria, who needed a replacement after allowing Antonio Cassano to join Serie A leaders AC Milan.
Juventus boosted their forward ranks with the free signing of Genoa's veteran former Italy international Luca Toni, who is seeking to rebuild his career following high-profile spells with Roma and Bayern Munich.
Juve will be without Fabio Quagliarella for the rest of this season after the forward tore knee ligaments in Thursday's 4-1 defeat by Parma.
Genoa have signed Slovakia midfielder Juraj Kucka following the departure of Francesco Modesto and Raffaelle Palladino to Parma, who have also signed Spanish midfielder Tony Calvo on loan.
Spanish club Malaga have brought in former Real Madrid, Sevilla and Arsenal striker Julio Baptista from Italian club Roma, with the Brazilian costing a reported $2.5 million.
In Turkey, league leaders Trabzonspor have signed twin Poland internationals Piotr and Pawel Brozek along with forward Mehmet Cakir.
Galatasaray have signed Turkey striker Kazim Kazim and Argentine midfielder player Juan Culio.
