With the season only a third completed, Martin Jol became the third managerial casualty in the English Premier League as Fulham announced Sunday that the Dutchman had been sacked.
Saturday's 3-0 defeat to fellow strugglers West Ham was the west London side's fifth straight EPL defeat and left them third from bottom.
The two teams below them, Sunderland and Crystal Palace, have already parted company with their managers after sorry starts to the 2013-14 campaign.
Paulo Di Canio was the first to go at Sunderland, with Gus Poyet taking charge, while Ian Holloway left Palace to be replaced last week by Tony Pulis.
A statement on Fulham's official website confirmed the 57-year-old Jol's fate, ending his two and a half year association with the club.
"Our poor form and results this season are undeniable and Fulham supporters deserve better," said Fulham chairman Shahid Khan.
"With more than half the season still ahead, an immediate change was necessary," he added.
American Khan hired former Manchester United coach Rene Meulensteen to work alongside Jol last month and he will now take over with "immediate effect," he said.
Jol was sacked by Tottenham Hotspur in 2007 before going on to successful spells at Hamburg and Ajax, returning to the EPL with Fulham in 2011.
Current Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas is reportedly under pressure for his job after disappointing recent results, but he may be breathing a little easier after his side fought to a 2-2 draw against reigning champions Manchester United in the early kickoff Sunday.
Tottenham, thrashed 6-0 at Manchester City last weekend, twice led through Kyle Walker and Sandro only for Wayne Rooney to twice equalize for the visitors.
Walker put Tottenham ahead from an early free kick, but it was then his blunder which allowed Rooney to level after the home side had wasted a series of chances to go further ahead.
Brazil international Sandro's blistering strike put Tottenham ahead again but the lead lasted only moments as Rooney scored his 10th of the season from the penalty spot after Hugo Lloris had pulled down Danny Welbeck.
The draw left United in eighth place in the standings, nine points behind leaders Arsenal, with Tottenham a point further back in ninth.
Tottenham's next match will be at Fulham Wednesday night, an early test for Meulensteen, as part of a full EPL midweek program.
Liverpool's title challenge suffered a setback Sunday with a 3-1 defeat at promoted Hull City.
They were looking to cut the gap on Arsenal to just four points with a win, but fell behind to an early goal from Jake Livermore, who is on loan from Tottenham.
Steven Gerrard equalized with a trademark free kick seven minutes later, but in the second half Hull stunned the visitors with two further goals.
First David Meyler scored with a low shot after Liverpool's defense failed to clear and with three minutes left Tom Huddlestone's shot was deflected into his own goal by Martin Skrtel.
Liverpool have also lost England striker Daniel Sturridge for up to eight weeks with ankle ligament damage, they revealed.
In the late kickoffs, Chelsea and Manchester City scored important victories to keep pace with Arsenal.
Chelsea beat Southampton 3-1 at Stamford Bridge to move back into second spot, four points adrift of the leaders.
They were behind after just 15 seconds as Jay Rodriguez took advantage of a mistake by Michael Essien.
Gary Cahill leveled for Jose Mourinho's men early in the second half before John Terry marked his 400th league appearance for the Blues with a fine glancing header to put them ahead. Demba Ba rounded off the scoring in the final minute.
City, so impressive at home to Tottenham last weekend, took their tally to 29 goals in seven home league games by beating Swansea 3-0 to go up to third.
Alvaro Negredo and Samir Nasri with two second half strikes sealed the points for their side.
