English Premier League leaders Manchester United crashed to their second defeat in a week as Dirk Kuyt's first-ever Liverpool hat-trick earned them a comfortable 3-1 victory at Anfield.
United had lost just once this season prior to last Tuesday's visit to Chelsea, but a 2-1 defeat at Stamford Bridge followed by Sunday's reversal, means they now lead Arsenal by three points at the top -- although the Gunners have a vital game in hand.
United were missing their first choice central defensive pairing of Nemanja Vidic and Rio Ferdinand, and their absence showed as the home side deservedly took a two-goal half-time lead.
Dutchman Kuyt broke the deadlock in the 34th minute after some superb play from Luis Suarez. The Uruguayan striker twisted and turned in the area, skipping around three challenges before getting to the by-line and knocking the ball across the area for Kuyt to apply the simplist of finishes from in front of goal.
And, just five minutes later, Liverpool doubled their advantage when United winger Nani inexplicably headed Suarez's cross from the right back towards goal -- and an unmarked Kuyt was on hand to nod home his second from close range.
United went close to pulling a goal back in the second half when Dimitar Berbatov's close-range header hit the chest of Raul Meireles on the goal-line.
And they were made to pay for that miss when Kuyt completed his hat-trick, again from close range, converting a 65th-minute rebound after goalkeeper Edwin Van der Sar had parried Suarez's free-kick into his path.
United pulled one back in the final minute when substitute Javier Hernandez nodded home Ryan Giggs' right-wing cross from close range, but the goal had no impact on the final outcome and Liverpool were able to give a second-half debut to record signing Andy Carroll -- the most expensive English player in history following his $55m deadline day transfer from Newcastle.
The result lifts Liverpool back up to sixth place in the table, six points behind fourth-placed Chelsea although they have played two matches more.
Meanwhile, United's poor away form, they have won just four matches on their travels, continues to hinder their title chances.
The late afternoon game saw struggling Wolverhampton draw 3-3 at home to Tottenham in a thrilling see-saw encounter.
The home side took the lead when Kevin Doyle flicked home a close-range header but England striker Jermain Defoe scored two superb goals from outside the area to give Tottenham the lead.
Remarkably they were Defoe's first Premier League goals of a season disrupted by injuries.
However, Wolves were level before half-time after Doyle added his second from the penalty spot after Alan Hutton had tugged back Nenad Milijas.
In an end-to-end match, another fine strike -- this time from Roman Pavlyuchenko -- looked to have given Spurs the three points that would have seen them move above Chelsea into fourth place.
But a superb back post header from substitute Steven Fletcher with just three minutes remaining ensured the honors finished even, although a draw helps neither side at opposite ends of the table.
Wolves remain second bottom of the table with 29 points, although only nine points separate ninth place Newcastle with bottom team Wigan Athletic.
Meanwhile, Tottenham remain fifth, level on points with Chelsea although they have played a game more than their London rivals.
