MOSCOW, Russia -- UEFA have confirmed that Slovakian referee Lubos Michel will take charge of Wednesday's Champions League final between Manchester United and Chelsea in Moscow.
Michel refereed the 2003 UEFA Cup final when Jose Mourinho's Porto beat Celtic.
Michel, 40 last week,is remembered by Chelsea fans for controversially awarding a goal to Liverpool against the Londoners in the semifinals of the 2005 competition.
Chelsea's manager at the time Jose Mourinho always insisted that Luis Garcia's shot did not cross the line.
Michel is regarded as one of the top referees in the world and officiated at Euro 2004 and the 2006 World Cup, including the tense Germany v Argentina game in the first knock-out round. He also refereed the 2003 UEFA Cup final when Mourinho's Porto triumphed over Celtic.
Michel speaks English, Russian, German and Polish as well as his native language.
Michel will be supported at the Luzhniki Stadium by the assistant referees who have partnered him at major tournaments - Roman Slysko (34) and Martin Balko (36). The fourth official will be Vladimir Hrinak (44), also from Slovakia.
Meanwhile, senior police officers from Manchester traveled to Moscow on Monday to help prevent fan violence from marring the final.
Manchester police will serve in an advisory role as Russian authorities prepare for Wednesday's match.
"A number of my officers and I have flown out to Moscow to meet local police and help draw up arrangements to police the fixture," said chief superintendent Janette McCormick.
"Although GMP officers have no powers of arrest abroad and ultimate responsibility for policing the game lies with the Russian authorities, we have been gathering intelligence on potential and known troublemakers and GMP officers will be in Moscow in an advisory role," McCormick added.
As Manchester United flew out on Monday, plain-clothed intelligence officers were stationed at Manchester Airport to target known or potential troublemakers from heading to the Russian capital.
Ban orders imposed on fans with soccer-related convictions will be rigorously enforced in the next two days to prevent them from flying to Moscow.
"As with all operations like this, we are sending out a clear message to people intending to travel to commit violence to think again," said police chief inspector Robert Tinsley, who is based at the airport.
The airport is expecting 20,000 more passengers than usual to be flying to Moscow.
The British embassy in Moscow have announced that their consular section will stay open on May 21 and 22 to help English fans arriving for the final.
"The consular department will extend their working hours on Wednesday and Thursday to support English citizens coming here to watch the Champions' League final," the embassy press service said.
The press service report added that a 24-hour telephone "hot line" would be organized by the embassy.
