Panamanian officials are preparing for the return of former dictator Manuel Noriega, who is scheduled to be extradited from France this weekend, Panama's foreign minister told CNN en Español.
Noriega, 77, will arrive in Panama Sunday on a flight with the Spanish airline Iberia, the foreign ministry said in a statement.
Authorities are preparing to step up security to guarantee Noriega's safety in prison, Foreign Minister Roberto Henriquez said Wednesday.
"We have to be ready for all the possibilities in all aspects. Noriega inspires very big emotions, and Noriega's life could very well be at risk in Panama," Henriquez said.
Calls for protests against the former military dictator have already begun, Henriquez said.
"Noriega has some friends who still follow him. But also a large majority of the Panamanian people resent his behavior. They are already mobilizing in Panama," he said.
France ordered Noriega's extradition earlier this year, responding to a Panamanian government request for the former dictator's return to face charges that he had a political rival killed.
Panamanian officials want him to face justice there in the case of the killing of Hugo Spadafora, a doctor and political opponent of Noriega. Noriega was convicted in absentia of being involved with the kidnapping and killing of Spadafora in 1985.
Several steps remain before the extradition, Panama's foreign ministry said in a statement Wednesday. Panama's attorney general will arrive in Paris Thursday, and doctors will conduct a medical exam of Noriega Saturday, the statement said.
Judicial officials in Panama will determine whether Noriega can stand trial, Henriquez said.
Last year, a French court sentenced Noriega to seven years in prison for money laundering. He also was fined almost 2.3 million euros ($2.9 million), the amount of drug money he was accused of laundering through French banks.
Noriega denied the charges.
U.S. forces removed the ex-dictator from office during the 1989 invasion of Panama. Noriega had fled his offices and tried to seek sanctuary in the Vatican Embassy in Panama City.
U.S. troops set up large speakers around the compound, blaring music at all hours, a psychological ploy to rattle the general.
He surrendered in January 1990, and was quickly escorted to the United States for civilian trial.
The U.S. government has portrayed Noriega as the ultimate crooked cop -- a man who was paid millions by the Medellin drug cartel in Colombia to protect cocaine and money shipments.
He was convicted of drug trafficking and other crimes in the United States.
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton cleared the way for Noriega to be sent to France in April 2010 after he spent 20 years in a U.S. federal prison.
Noriega and his attorneys had argued the United States was violating the Geneva Convention by not sending him back to Panama, where he was seized by U.S. troops after the United States invaded that country in 1989 in Operation Nifty Package. U.S. federal courts ruled against him.
Noriega's U.S. sentence, originally for 30 years, ended in September 2007 after time off for good behavior. However, he remained in prison while the French extradition issue was decided.
While in U.S. custody, Noriega suffered from prostate cancer and had a stroke.
