Manchester City captain Carlos Tevez has revealed that he wanted to leave the English Premier League club in the previous transfer window.
The Argentina forward handed in a transfer request at the weekend, which was rejected by the club -- who claimed his representatives had been seeking to renegotiate the 26-year-old's lucrative contract, which expires in 2014.
British media have widely speculated that Tevez, whose family live in South America, will leave Eastlands when the transfer window reopens in January.
"I wanted to leave in the summer, but was convinced to return to the club," Tevez said in a statement. "Sadly, my feelings have not changed.
"I hugely resent the management's suggestions that I have been unduly influenced by others. I am disappointed that the management should now see fit to try to portray the situation in another light."
Manchester City reject Tevez transfer request
Manchester City released a statement on Sunday to confirm that Tevez's transfer request had been rejected.
"The written transfer request is in stark contrast to Carlos' stated position in both public and club contexts," it said.
"Significantly, over recent months, the club has also received numerous requests from Carlos' representative to renegotiate and improve his playing contract, as well as more recently a request to extend that contract by another year."
The former Manchester United player, who has scored 10 league goals this season, made his announcement on Saturday, hours after his team's 3-1 win over West Ham lifted City to second place in the table.
Toure on target for Man City
He missed that match due to suspension, and had appeared to clash with manager Roberto Mancini after being substituted against Bolton earlier this month.
Tevez said he had no problems with Mancini, but wanted to leave because his relationship with "certain executives and individuals at the club" had broken down "beyond repair."
Since September 2008, the club has been owned by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, an Abu Dhabi billionaire who has financed many high-profile player acquisitions including Spain midfielder David Silva and Ivory Coast's Yaya Toure.
Tevez has been in sensational form since his arrival from United, scoring 39 goals in 59 appearances for the Citizens.
His move across Manchester in mid-2009 angered his former manager Alex Ferguson, as Tevez turned down the offer of a new contract to join the club's fierce rivals.
