(CNN)It is some admission from one of the finest golfers ever to play the game.
Tiger Woods -- a 14-time major champion and former world No. 1 -- is taking a break from the sport after admitting his game isn't up to scratch.
The 39-year-old shot a career worst round of 82 at his first tournament of 2015 in Phoenix before withdrawing from his second at Torrey Pines due to injury.
And he says he won't be back until both his body, and his game, are in tip top shape.
"This latest injury is not related to my previous surgery. I am having daily physical therapy and I am feeling better every day," Woods said in a statement on his official website.
"Right now, I need a lot of work on my game, and to still spend time with the people that are important to me. My play, and scores, are not acceptable for tournament golf.
"Like I've said, I enter a tournament to compete at the highest level, and when I think I'm ready, I'll be back. Next week I will practice at Medalist and at home getting ready for the rest of the year."
After his 2014 was blighted by a series of injuries, Woods' world ranking now stands at 62 -- the lowest since he turned professional back in 1996.
His first appearance of the year at the Phoenix Open saw him miss the cut by 12 shots after shooting a second round of 82, the worst of his career.
And he lasted just 11 holes at the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines before pulling out due to difficulties with his back.
It raises further questions as to whether Woods will ever be able to recapture the form that saw him snare 14 major titles during a glittering spell between 1997 and 2008.
Despite a clutch of top five finishes since winning the U.S. Open in 2008, Woods missed two majors last year and recorded a best finish of 69th in the British Open.
He stated his desire to feature at the Honda Classic, that starts in Florida on February 26, but says he will only play if his game is up to it.
"The last two weeks have been very disappointing to me, especially Torrey, because I never want to withdraw," he added.
"Unfortunately, lately injuries have made that happen too often. I am committed to getting back to the pinnacle of my game.
"I'd like to play The Honda Classic -- it's a tournament in my hometown and it's important to me -- but I won't be there unless my game is tournament-ready.
"That's not fair to anyone. I do, however, expect to be playing again very soon."
