New York Fashion Week is set to bloom on Thursday, and fashion forecasters are once again peering into their chic crystal balls for an early glimpse of the spring 2014 women's collections.
Sheila Aimette, of fashion forecaster WGSN, says fashion followers are in for a sweet surprise with candy-colored pastels. (WGSN is the official trend sponsor of the bi-annual Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week.)
Amidst garden party hues of blush rose and bold peony, Aimette also expects designers to add a vivid splash of blue -- from icy aqua to classic navy -- to liven up the softer hues.
Fall trends at the top of the class
"I suspect we will see a continuation of resort (wear) -- big florals, art-inspired prints, offbeat pastel combinations and architecturally minded separates and sportswear-inspired ideas," predicts Anne Slowey, fashion news director of Elle Magazine.
Aimette agrees: Flora and fauna will be flourishing, even in mismatched patterns on top and bottoms.
"There will be a lot happening in print and pattern because the silhouette is architectural and sleek," Aimette says.
See all of CNN Living's New York Fashion Week coverage
Denim will also be on double duty; expect to see the wardrobe staple in skinny-legged, dark washes, paired with a boyfriend-fit chambray shirt. Aimette says colored denim's appeal will fade, while basic indigo is back.
When it comes to bottoms, there's no middle ground -- or hem. Expect pleated-kilt miniskirts or midcalf skirts. The former, an ode to The Met's spring 2013 Costume Institute exhibition, "PUNK: Chaos to Couture," the latter inspired by the upcoming film "Grace of Monaco," starring Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly. Aimette says the asymmetric hem's allure will taper off, along with studded accessories.
Photos: Punk fashion at the Met Gala
Let's not forget about the footwear, where black-and-white loafers, graphic printed flats and Lucite wedges step right up.
As for designers to watch, Slowey says Dion Lee, Rosie Assoulin and Tome are three brands to keep eyes on for their sophisticated, clean lines, while NewbarK, the brainchild of sisters Maryam and Marjan Malakpour, will be any downtown gal's go-to for understated accessories.
"I'm really in love with the idea of anonymous luxury -- beautiful luxurious separates that resist being easily identified," Slowey said.
Follow Sarah LeTrent and CNN Living on Twitter for dispatches from New York Fashion Week.
