Mexico scored the quickest goal in Olympic football history to ensure five-time World Cup winners Brazil miss out yet again on an Olympic gold medal.
It was one of two simple goals scored by Oribe Peralta which allowed the Mexicans to command a game which was littered with defensive errors by the Brazilians.
Brazil could have pulled off a comeback when Hulk scored in injury time and Oscar missed the equalizer with seconds to go.
Peralta's record-breaking first goal after just 29 seconds of play was an early example of what was to come. Brazil's defenders made the first of many poor clearances and the striker just accepted the ball outside the Brazilian area to shoot for goal in the bottom corner of the net with a low drive.
The much-fancied Brazilians were in shock from the early setback and there was an altercation between Raphael and Juan after the goal as they tried to work out who was to blame for the error which allowed Mexico in.
And they struggled to get the ball past a Mexican side happy to defend for the rest of the first period.
The Brazilians had 60% of the the goalscoring opportunities, yet they failed to capitalize on every single one. Neymar put a number of shots over the bar and he was joined by attempts by Raphael.
Live blog: Olympic final as it happened
Seven minutes into the second half, Brazil's Neymar crashed into the Mexican goalkeeper in the area, but British referee Mark Clattenburg rightly waved away calls for a penalty.
The Mexicans seemed to be spurred on in the second half by a series of poor clearances and they fancied getting another goal.
Tiago Silva failed to clear the ball from his area and, luckily for the Brazilians, Marco Fabian found it tough to control the ball and his looped shot hit the bar .
Peralta looked set for his second goal when he saw off the final defender in the box and shot the ball into the net. However, he was ruled to be offside.
He finally made the breakthrough minutes later. As a free kick came in, he had an easy header into the right hand side of the goal from the center of the area as the Brazilians stood like statues.
However, in an example of how much the game meant to Brazil, they tried to fashion a last minute comeback and nearly pulled it off.
Hulk broke free in injury time with a great low finish through the goalkeeper's legs to make it 2-1 to reignite Brazil's hopes of saving the game. Moments late Oscar had a golden opportunity to equalize but sent his header over the bar.
A near capacity crowd 86,162 people came to see the Olympics final at London's Wembley Stadium. Whilst Peralta's first goal broke the Olympic record for the fastest goal, it was not the fastest seen at Wembley. That was scored by Paul Chow of English amateur soccer side Whitley Bay after 21 seconds in May 2010.
