The Libyan government tried and failed to swap three captured Dutch military personnel for two Libyan Air Force jets whose pilots defected with their warplanes to the European island nation of Malta last month.
Maltese officials who helped negotiate the release of the Dutch prisoners in conjunction with Greek diplomats on Thursday, say they rejected Libya's request for the return of the Libyan Mirage fighter planes.
In a telephone interview with CNN, a spokesman for Malta's foreign ministry said Libya sent Mohamad Tahir Siala, a senior Libyan diplomat, on a private jet to Malta on Wednesday to meet with Lawrence Gonzi, the Maltese prime minister.
"During the discussion it was discussed whether Malta would give back the two Mirages in exchange for the Dutch prisoners," said ministry spokesman Melvyn Mangion.
In an interview with the Times of Malta newspaper this week, Gonzi said he refused this suggestion and insisted that the Dutch prisoners had to be released immediately without any conditions.
The three Dutch navy personnel were captured by Libyan security forces on February 27, after they tried to evacuate a Dutch citizen from Libya by helicopter.
The prisoners, two men and a woman, were later shown on Libyan state television along with their Lynx helicopter. Libyan state TV also showed captured weapons, and claimed that the crew had been operating a fighter helicopter in Libyan territory in violation of international law.
After several rounds of negotiations this week, "eventually the Libyan authorities accepted to release the Dutch prisoners without getting the two Mirages back," said Mangion.
The Libyan government has reportedly made several requests to Maltese officials to have its fighter planes returned, since their pilots landed unexpectedly in Malta on February 21. The pilots said they refused to carry out order by the government of Moammar Gadhafi to bomb Libyan protesters. Maltese officials say the two pilots have since requested political asylum.
On Thursday, the Dutch foreign ministry announced Libyan authorities had released the three Dutch prisoners and that they were in good condition after being flown from Tripoli to Athens, Greece.
Malta, a small island nation less than 250 miles off the Libyan coast, has long had close economic and political ties with the Gadhafi regime. Some observers call Malta the "gateway to Libya." But the increasingly bloody conflict in Libya has put this small country in an increasingly precarious position.
Since forces loyal to Gadhafi began a deadly crackdown on unarmed protesters last month, Malta worked with the U.S., British and other governments to help evacuate foreigners fleeing Libya.
However, the Maltese government also announced it is unwilling to play a larger diplomatic or military role in the growing confrontation between the European Union and Libya.
"The Maltese prime minister reiterated that Malta will not be used as a military base should there be an action against Libya," said Mangion, the Maltese foreign ministry spokesman, citing a neutrality cause in Malta's constitution.
"Malta will not act as a mediator between Libya and the EU, even though Libya formally asked Malta to," Mangion added.
CNN's Per Nyberg contributed to this report.
