Chelsea have completed the English Premier League and FA Cup double for the first time in their history after a hard-fought 1-0 cup final win over Portsmouth at Wembley Stadium on Saturday.
In a topsy-turvy match, which saw two penalties missed in a frantic second-half, Didier Drogba's superb long-range free-kick eventually proved the difference, as both sides wasted a host of chances to find the net.
In a strange twist of fate, the final was played between the last two winners of the competition -- Portsmouth (2008) and Chelsea (2009) -- but the similarity between the two sides ended there.
Chelsea had sealed the Premier League title with an 8-0 thrashing of Wigan last weekend, while Portsmouth had suffered a dreadful season in which they became the first Premier League club to enter administration after accumulating huge debts -- subsequently finishing bottom of the table and suffering relegation to the second tier Championship.
And that gulf in class between the sides showed in the opening 45 minutes, with Chelsea remarkably hitting the woodwork five times as they peppered the Portsmouth goal.
The most glaring miss came from Ivory Coast striker Salomon Kalou, who somehow contrived to hit the crossbar with an open goal gaping, after being superbly set-up by left-back Ashley Cole.
Frank Lampard's dipping long-range strike and John Terry's looping header also struck the woodwork, while Drogba gave notice of what was to come in the second half with a stunning free-kick, which England goalkeeper David James somehow managed to get a fingertip to, with the ball bouncing onto the goalline and away.
Portsmouth themselves had a great opportunity in the first half, when Frederic Piquionne diverted a cross goalbound, only for goalkeeper Petr Cech to instinctively scramble the ball clear.
Underdogs Portsmouth began the second half with more purpose and should have taken a surprise lead.
Aruna Dindane out-paced substitute Julian Belletti, who had come on for the injured Michael Ballack, and was fouled by the Brazilian in the penalty area.
However, Kevin-Prince Boateng's weak spot-kick was hit straight down the middle, allowing Cech to save with his legs.
And Portsmouth were made to play for that miss just two minutes later when Drogba found a gap in the Portsmouth wall to fire his free-kick into the far corner of James' net.
Chelsea squandered further chances to double their lead, most notably when Frank Lampard missed the game's second penalty four minutes from the end after Lampard himself had been fouled by Michael Brown.
However, Portsmouth failed to trouble Cech's goal after that, although substitute Nadir Belhadj produced a couple of dangerous crosses from the left that caused panic in the Chelsea defence.
After the game, Chelsea captain John Terry paid tribute to his side, who join Tottenham (1961), Liverpool (1986), Arsenal (1971, 1998, 2002) and Manchester United (1994, 1996 and 1999) as modern-day "Double" winners.
"This is an unbelievable feeling and to win the Double with this group of players is just fantastic," Terry told ITV Sport.
"I thought our luck was running out with all those misses but it was a great strike from Didier and I thought we were worthy winners.
"The pitch was awful, the worse pitch we have played on this season, but we played our football and managed to get the victory."
The result was also a personal triumph for manager Carlo Ancelotti, who managed to achieve what no other Chelsea manager -- including Jose Mourinho -- had achieved by winning the "Double" in his first season in charge at Stamford Bridge.
