Washington (CNN)Sen. Rand Paul resumes the campaign trail Wednesday, returning to the first-in-the-nation primary state of New Hampshire for a full day of events.
It's his first time to the Granite State since he made a two-day swing in October to campaign for Scott Brown, and his fifth visit to the state in the past year.
But this time there's no hiding under the guise of a 2014 surrogate. The Kentucky Republican, who's likely running for president, is roaring to get started as Mitt Romney, Jeb Bush and Chris Christie also make big pre-campaign moves.
Look no further than the blunt criticism Paul offered of his potential rivals on the eve of his New Hampshire trip. In an interview with Politico, Paul knocked Bush as a "Big Government Republican" and argued that Romney already "had his chance."
RELATED: Jeb Bush heads to California fundraisers, some hosted by former Romney donors
In a separate interview with the conservative outlet The Daily Signal, Paul further pounced on Romney for considering a third presidential run, saying the former Massachusetts governor failed to "attract a big enough constituency to win" and that "it's time for some fresh blood."
It was only a few days ago that his top political adviser, Doug Stafford, reacted to the Romney news by telling reporters: "As Senator Paul has said previously, the more the merrier."
Guess not.
In New Hampshire Wednesday, Paul started by meeting with local elected officials for breakfast in Manchester at Murphy's Diner, a local hot spot known for its Captain Crunch French Toast.
Later in the day he attends what's billed as a "Second Amendment Supporter Event" at the Londonderry Fish & Game Club, before touring the Founders Academy, a public charter school in Manchester.
Also among his six public and private events is a session on Common Core, where Paul will likely draw a sharp contrast between himself and Bush, who's a staunch supporter of the controversial education standards.
RELATED: What's happening in 2016: Romney and everyone else
On the same day it was reported that Christie is gearing up to launch a political action committee, Paul's adviser, Stafford, confirmed Tuesday that Paul hired Chip Englander as the campaign manager for his likely presidential campaign.
Englander, 33, ran Republican Bruce Rauner's impressive gubernatorial win last year in Illinois, stealing the office away from Democratic hands. The Washington Post first reported Englander's hire.
It was the latest staff move by Team Rand, which also recently hired Republican strategist Chris LaCivita, who helped embattled Sen. Pat Roberts hold onto his seat in Kansas last year, as a senior adviser. LaCivita is slated to run Paul's campaign in South Carolina, which typically holds the first primary in the South.
Paul is bypassing the congressional GOP retreat in Pennsylvania on Thursday to fly out West and meet with business leaders and activists in Phoenix behind closed doors. On Friday and Saturday, he continues holding meetings and events, this time in Nevada, a state that traditionally holds the first nominating contest in the West.
His father, former Rep. Ron Paul, had a solid block of support in Nevada as a presidential candidate in 2012. While Romney overwhelmingly won the caucuses, Paul took a majority of the state's delegates.
Rand Paul will make a public appearance at the Peppermill Restaurant in Vegas on Friday and talk to reporters in Reno the next day.
RELATED: Christie supporters to form leadership PAC
