Adam Scott has extended his lead to seven shots at the Arnold Palmer Invitational in Florida after posting a second round four-under par 68.
The Australian couldn't match his course record-equaling opening round of 62 in Friday's second round, but is firmly in the box seat not only to claim a maiden win at the event but also take over from Tiger Woods as the world No.1.
A win for the current world No. 2 on Sunday would still leave him fractionally behind Woods in the rankings but he will assume top spot if the 14-time major champion, who is currently injured, doesn't play before next month's Masters at Augusta National.
The two-year rolling points system which looks likely to hand defending Masters champion Scott the top ranking spot may not be immediately easy to understand, but the 33-year-old's dominance at Bay Hill is clear for all to see.
Scott's two-round 14-under par total ties the 36-hole record at the course and leaves him seven clear of America's J.B. Holmes and Chesson Hadley and Francesco Molinari from Italy.
"I think it was a pretty good way to back up a low round," Scott said. "It's not easy to do that, especially around a tough course.
"And I think the first hole was key in keeping some momentum out of yesterday, making kind of a scrappy par and a good putt on the 1st to feel like I'm heading in the right direction to start the day," he added.
"I think you have those days like yesterday where it seems every yardage is perfect and you've got the read on every putt and things just happen.
"And as soon as you don't have that perfect yardage, maybe on the first few holes, the pin's a little tucked and it's not shaping up for you, it all becomes a lot harder."
Elsewhere, Keegan Bradley's five-under 67 was the best of the day and lifted the American to joint fifth on six under with five other players including compatriot Brandt Snedeker and Jamie Donaldson from Wales who both shot second rounds of 71.
England's Ian Poulter and Ryo Ishikawa from Japan are two of six players on five-under par.
Read more: Woods a doubt for Augusta
Read more: James Bond's favorite bunker
