Authorities in Egypt have frozen the assets of former President Hosni Mubarak and his family, state-run media reported Monday.
Attorney General Abdel Meguid Mahmoud requested the action, according to the state-run EgyNews website.
Along with Mubarak's assets, those belonging to his wife, Suzanne, were also frozen, along with the assets of the former president's eldest son, Alaa, and younger son, Gamal, and both of the sons' wives, according to the report.
After 30 years, Mubarak stepped down as Egypt's president February 11 following 18 days of unrest.
The same day, Switzerland's government moved to freeze any assets in the country's banks that might belong to Mubarak or his family. "The (government) intends in doing so to avoid any risk of embezzlement of Egyptian state property," Swiss officials said in a statement at the time.
In addition, the prosecutor has requested an investigation into Mubarak's assets, prompted by citizen complaints, Egyptian state television reported.
On Sunday, Mubarak's attorney said that false information had been published by media outlets both in Egypt and elsewhere regarding the former president's wealth, calling it "baseless rumors ... an attempt to cause damage to his reputation and his integrity," according to EgyNews.
And on Saturday, Egyptian Prime Minister Ahmed Shafiq responded to a question on the matter during a meeting with newspaper editors and media representatives by saying he only knew what he "read about Mubarak's wealth in the newspapers and in the media, just like everyone else," EgyNews reported. Shafiq said that any action on the former president's assets was up to the country's Military Council.
Two former Egyptian ministers were transferred to criminal court on Monday, according to state news agency MENA. Former Interior Minister Habib al-Adly, whose agency was reponsible for Egyptian police and paramilitary forces, and Zuhair Garana, former tourism minister, will face corruption charges, MENA reported.
Al-Adly is charged with racketeering and money laundering, according to EgyNews, and Garana is charged with premeditated damage to public property and illegally enabling close associates to obtain financial benefits.
The two were among four ministers from Mubarak's government jailed last week, state media reported.
Meanwhile, British Prime Minister David Cameron arrived Monday in Cairo, his office said, for meetings with Egypt's military leadership, to which Mubarak ceded power.
Cameron met Monday with Mohammed Tantawi, head of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, according to his office. Cameron "spoke of the UK's willingness to be helpful and contribute to a successful political transition," the Downing Street website reported.
"This is a great opportunity for us to go and talk to those currently running Egypt to make sure this really is a genuine transition from military rule to civilian rule and see what friendly countries like Britain and others in Europe can do to help," Cameron said, according to the website.
Cameron also plans to meet with Shafiq as well as "members of the opposition movement," his office said.
It was unclear whether Cameron would meet with the banned Muslim Brotherhood group. The opposition group, although officiallyillegal, has said it will apply to become a political party in Mubarak's absence. It has said it does not plan to field a candidate for president when elections are held to replace Mubarak.
CNN's Carol Jordan, Saad Abedine and Caroline Faraj contributed to this report
