More than two dozen leaders of the American Outlaws Association motorcycle gang have been arrested and one was killed in a shootout during a wide-ranging roundup by federal authorities Tuesday.
A federal grand jury in Virginia has indicted 27 members of the gang on charges that included attempted murder, kidnapping and assault, according to court documents unsealed Tuesday. Outlaws National President Jack Rosga and 26 others are named in a 12-count indictment that also lists robbery, extortion, witness intimidation, drug dealing, illegal gambling and weapons violations.
One member of the motorcycle gang was killed in a shootout in Old Orchard, Maine, as authorities tried to execute an arrest warrant relating to the indictment, said Mike Campbell, spokesman for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
Campbell said members of an ATF Special Response Team pulled up to a house in Old Orchard to arrest Thomas Mayne and Kenneth Chretien when shots were fired at them from the house. ATF agents returned fire, killing one person, Campbell said.
Authorities did not release the name of the victim, but said that Chretien was taken into custody.
The Outlaws are an organized criminal enterprise that involved itself in a number of illegal activities, the indictment states.
"Today's arrests of the national president and leadership of the American Outlaws Association mark another aggressive attempt by the Department of Justice to dismantle what the indictment alleges to be a gang whose entire environment revolves around violence," U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride said in a statement.
Arrests were made in Wisconsin, Maine, Montana, North Carolina, Tennessee, South Carolina and Virginia. As many as 50 Outlaws were initially targeted in the raids, officials said.
The acts of violence and conspiracy charges are related to the Outlaws' efforts to gain territory from rival motorcycle gangs, most notably the Hells Angels.
According to the Justice Department, the Outlaws have more than 1,700 members, who belong to 176 chapters in the United States and 12 foreign countries. The Outlaws are involved in the production, transportation and distribution of methamphetamine, cocaine and marijuana, according to the department.
Among the examples mentioned in the indictment is a 2005 incident where members of the Outlaws struck a member of a rival motorcycle club with a vehicle. The rival member was thrown off his motorcycle and rendered unconscious. The Outlaws members removed the rival's vest and left him there, according to the court document.
Also mentioned in the indictment is the 2009 Outlaws assault of members of the Desperados Motorcycle Club in Virginia. According to the court document, Outlaws members planned an assault where they would send three of their smaller members into a bar occupied by the rival gang in an effort to lure them into a fight.
Hidden inside and outside of the bar, other Outlaws members were ready to fight and threaten the Desperados with weapons. Police arrived at the scene and broke up the fight, the indictment states.
CNN's Carol Cratty and Terry Frieden contributed to this report.
