(CNN Student News) -- December 17, 2013
Making headlines on CNN Student News today: flooding in Gaza, a ruling against NSA spying, CTE in a former Major Leaguer, and a robotics purchase by an Internet company. We also include a character study that's emblematic of the Christmas season.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback.
TRANSCRIPT
Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
DAILY CURRICULUM
Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF).
Media Literacy Question of the Day:
Are viewers influenced by news stories about a person's good deeds? If so, to what extent? If not, why not?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. Gaza
2. CTE
3. layaway
Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program?
1. Describe the current situation in Gaza. How has a natural disaster impacted people in the region?
2. Who was Ryan Freel? What implications might Freel's CTE diagnosis have for other athletes?
3. What did a judge recently rule regarding the NSA's secret collection of Americans' phone data? Why is this significant?
Discussion Questions:
1. What is your opinion of a judge's ruling regarding an NSA spying program? What do you think will be the next legal steps concerning the NSA?
2. What may be some uses for the bipedal and four-legged robots seen in the video? What is your opinion of Google's robotics company purchases? What might be the benefits and risks for Google in buying eight robotics companies? Do you think this could affect how and what robotics technology is developed? Explain.
3. What was your reaction to the story about a shopper paying for other people's layaway items? What are some other stories you've heard of in which people helped others during the holidays? If you could do something nice for someone else, what action would you take?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
MAPS
Download PDF maps related to today's show:
North America
Washington, D.C.
FEEDBACK
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Thank you for using CNN Student News!
Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
