The lawyer for Meredith Kercher's family showed photos of the British murder victim's bloodied body Monday, pointing out multiple stab wounds, as he urged an Italian jury not to overturn the murder convictions of Amanda Knox and Rafaelle Sollecito.
"I show you these pictures to show you the pain of Meredith," Francesco Maresca said.
"She didn't have defensive wounds. It means that she was tied up, that she had more than one aggressor," the lawyer said.
"Given the type, number and locations of the wounds, there had to be multiple attackers," he insisted.
He attacked as "useless" a review of DNA evidence that may cast doubt on the original convictions.
American student Knox and her former boyfriend Sollecito were convicted of the killing in 2009 and are now fighting to have the verdicts overturned. Knox was sentenced to 26 years in prison, while Sollecito got 25.
A third man, Rudy Guede, was convicted separately and is serving 16 years. Knox and Sollecito's defense teams have suggested he could have been the sole killer.
Lawyers for the civil suits related to the case presented their closing arguments Monday. Knox avoided looking at the photographs of Kercher's body as they were shown.
Another lawyer called Knox two-faced and "diabolical."
"Within her lives a double soul: one which is angelic, good, compassionate ... tender and ingenuous," Carlo Pacelli said.
But she had another side, he said: "And a Lucifer-like, demonic, satanic, diabolical one which sometimes leads her to borderline and dissolute behavior," saying that was the Knox who had killed her roommate.
Pacelli sought to portray Knox as sexually promiscuous and a difficult roommate as he fights for damages for Patrick Lumumba. His closing arguments were based on earlier testimony by friends of Kercher's.
Curt Knox, Amanda Knox's father, said the language used by the lawyer "was extraordinarily hard to listen to."
"What I find very hard to believe is how this person can start calling her that when he's never even talked to her, never met her," Curt Knox told CNN's Brooke Baldwin on Monday night.
Knox accused Lumumba of the murder in 2007. He was arrested but released after his alibi checked out. He later sued Knox for libel, winning 40,000 euros ($54,000) in damages.
Knox's accusation of Lumumba shows that she committed the crime, Pacelli argued.
"Knox told lies," he said, adding that she was guilty and her conviction should stand.
He urged the court not to "fall under the spell of the defendant" but to "stick to the proof."
Knox testified in the initial trial that comments she made to police the night of the killing were the result of stress, mistreatment by police and inadequate translation help.
Lawyers are making closing arguments this week, and a verdict could come as soon as October 3.
Curt Knox said the defense will begin presenting its final arguments Tuesday, "and I think we're going to see a very different picture of what this case is all about, and so will the world."
"What we saw and what we heard in the first three hearings is really all circumstantial evidence," Curt Knox said. "When it really comes down to the nuts and bolts of this case, you're going to hear in the next couple of days there really is no forensic case."
Knox was in court Monday, wearing an off-white top and black hooded sweater as the months-long process nears its conclusion.
Curt Knox said his daughter has had trouble sleeping and has lost weight in recent weeks.
"These two judges and six jurors really have her life in their hands, and these last three hearings have been extraordinarily hard," he said.
Sollecito was also present at Monday's hearing, with his hair cut short. He wore a long-sleeved shirt with a geometric pattern.
The defense has sought to discredit DNA evidence linking the two of them to the killing, in which Kercher's throat was slashed. Her semi-clothed body was found in the house they shared in Perugia, a picturesque central Italian university town.
An Italian prosecutor put forward a vigorous defense in closing arguments Saturday of the DNA evidence used to find her guilty.
Prosecutor Manuela Comodi rejected testimony from independent forensics experts that cast doubt on the reliability of the evidence, insisting police forensic officers had handled the DNA material properly.
And she urged the court to increase Knox and Sollecito's sentences to life.
Comodi's appearance came on the second day of closing arguments for prosecutors in the appeal.
On Saturday, she told jurors that the original court had concluded "beyond any reasonable doubt" that blood from both Knox and Kercher found in the bathroom sink had been left there when Knox washed herself after the killing.
The prosecutor also pointed to a partial footprint with Kercher's blood found on a bathroom mat, saying analysis had shown that it was most likely to have been left by Sollecito.
He and Knox say they were at Sollecito's house on the night Kercher died, not the villa the two girls shared.
But Maresca disputed that Monday, calling their claim the "false alibi." Under Italian law, he said, in a trial based on circumstantial evidence, a defendant's alibi that turns out to be false can be used against them. The computer from Sollecito's house showed no activity on the night in question, he said, suggesting that he and Knox were not there.
Defense attorneys for Sollecito are expected to present their final arguments Tuesday, to be followed by Knox's attorneys Thursday.
Knox will be allowed to address the court one more time before the jury begins its deliberations, an opportunity her father says she has been thinking about the past three months.
"This is really her final opportunity to express her heartfelt thoughts as it relates to how she's being judged and the fact that she had nothing to do with this horrific crime and that Meredith was her friend," Curt Knox said.
Knox and Sollecito are appealing their convictions together, having been convicted in a joint trial.
CNN's Hada Messia contributed to this report.
