It's been a year since Steve Irwin, the environmentalist and TV host best known as the "Crocodile Hunter," died. He was killed September 4, 2006, by a stingray barb to the chest while filming an underwater documentary off Australia's northern coast.
Joseph Krygier shot this photo of a memorial in August 2007 at the Australia Zoo in Beerwah, Australia.
Irwin's death prompted a global outpouring of grief from fans, children and hundreds of early I-Report contributors, who shared photos, videos and memories with CNN shortly after he died. A year since, we asked CNN.com readers what they think his legacy will be, and how they are remembering him this year. Here is a selection of their responses:
Carol Shahan of Wilmington, Delaware In April, my Girl Scout Service Unit held an encampment. The event lasted Friday-Sunday and over 350 girls and leaders attended. Our theme was "Crikey! Let's go camping -- a tribute to the conservation legacy of Steve Irwin." The girls learned about how they can help conserve their part of the world and contributed funds to the Wildlife Warriors through a coin drive.
Patrick Rodrigue of Montreal, Quebec We met Steve and his wife and small entourage at an elephant safari park in Bali, Indonesia, in June 2004 during our honeymoon. We were having lunch when we saw him at the table next to us. He was on vacation and he still came over to our table to say "Hello Mates!" and pose for a picture.
Helen Osada of Hong Kong I never get tired of watching Steve Irwin and his family on Animal Planet even though they are all reruns. He had real charisma unlike most other wildlife enthusiasts. And that he shared so much with us including his family says a lot about his generosity. His death was a great loss to us all. I really miss him.
Melissa Amundsen Wells of Greensboro, North Carolina  Steve Irwin taught my daughter and myself that all animals deserve respect and protection, not just the furry cute ones. Every animal on the planet has a unique purpose and he conveyed that better than anyone else. His love for his work was a real inspiration to my whole family. We miss you Steve.
Mirad Maglic of Sarajevo, Bosnia In my opinion, his unorthodox style, love for all things living and dedication to wildlife preservation made Steve a hero with a legacy that compares to what Elvis did for the rock music. I just hope that others will follow in his tracks, just as his wonderful daughter is doing.
Donna Beckum of Orab, Ohio  It was a great honor to watch Bindi's show several times this past weekend. She is sure a chip off the ol' block! I will never forget Steve and his remarkable quest. I will continue to watch Bindi and all of the "Crocodile Hunter" episodes that are rerun. You just never get tired of watching them. I pray that God blesses Terri and her children and that Bindi continues to carry on where her daddy left off. Steve Irwin was an icon and certainly made a difference. He will never be forgotten!
John Hock of Alpharetta, Georgia  Met him in March of '06. He was on his motorbike in the zoo with his son on the front of the bike. He had is hat and sunglasses on. We were over by the camels. I yelled "Steve ..." He said "G'Day" to me. Then he was off to the pens behind the crocoseum. Even that brief meeting had an effect on me. To meet someone larger than life is an honor.
Michael Yang of Singapore Steve and Terri have been a big part of my life. I can't believe a year has flown by so fast. I was very sad at the misfortune of a stingray barb directly in Steve's heart. Without a doubt, Steve has helped make the world a better place both for people and animals.
Jenna Barnaby of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania  ... I can't believe it's only been a year. I was so sad when he died and so upset about the unfairness of it all that it feels like he's been gone so much longer. I miss him and think I always will.
Denise Cole of Union Lake, Michigan  The one and only time I saw Steve Irwin on television my thoughts were "You can't do that to wildlife and not get killed." I was not surprised by his death at all. I am sorry that his wife is a widow and his children are without a father. They are obviously doing OK though and that is GOOD.
Kim DiBiase of Fort Myers, Florida  My children now ages 9 & 11 grew up with Steve. My son who is 11 is a know-it-all with anything that has to do with animals due to his love of watching Steve since he was 4 years old. He knows every single type of snake and where they live. Steve's show was one of the few children's shows I could watch with the kids over and over. We miss him more than you could know and feel for his family. Only the good die young.
Patrick L. of Montreal, Quebec Steve Irwin will be remembered for his courage in dealing with dangerous animals, his skill as an entertainer and his humanity. Few people take the risks Steve did in dealing with dangerous animals; even fewer manage to do this type of job with the flair and heart that was visible from watching Steve at work. Steve was one of a kind and he will be missed.
Tim Pope of Cumming, Georgia  The man was reckless and a bad example for kids. He went out of his way to dramatize his product by courting danger and taking chances. Hopefully, the way he died will keep more intelligent kids from thinking that jumping on a crocodile's back is a great sport. I don't say this to detract from or denigrate him, but his installation in the heroes' pantheon sends a bad message.
Sakthivel Subramanian of Frankfurt, Germany I remember him as brave man with a kind heart for animals (reptiles) with which he lived his lifetime! I'm praying to God for his soul to rest in peace.
Liz Cook of Plainville, Massachusetts  One of our first "encounters" with Steve Irwin was through a Wiggles video that my children own. He had such an unusually bright spirit. We watched a special last night that included his trip to Belize and it was amazing to see how he fired my children's imagination and enthusiasm for the animals he encountered on his trip! They could not believe he didn't take it personally when he was injured by the iguana he was chasing! He is one of those rare souls that make it almost impossible to believe he is really gone ... so vivid, so warm, so BIG in spirit. Our best to his family on this sad anniversary.
Jason Epperson of York, Pennsylvania Editor's note: Epperson sent a poem tribute to Irwin. The first letters of the lines spell out "Steve Irwin."
South Australia I was born, Trekked my camera thru brush and thorn!
Endangered species I adore, Venomous and fanged all the more!
Earned my fair share of smiles, In wrestling snakes and crocodiles!
Ray of nature pierced my heart, Was chosen then to depart!
Into new unseen worlds I go Nature's next great adventure show
"Crikey!" E-mail to a friend
