At "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute," celebrity presenters and performers help shine the spotlight on 10 everyday people whose extraordinary accomplishments are making a difference in their communities and beyond.
Some of the celebrities involved in this year's show shared their thoughts about what it was like to help celebrate the Heroes.
Jon Bon Jovi  At this year's show, Bon Jovi and his band performed "What Do You Got?" -- a new song from their greatest-hits album that came out last month.
"As a performer, I am often asked to sing at television award shows," Bon Jovi said. "But none was more exciting than participating in CNN Heroes. To be able to help shine a light on those who give so much of themselves -- with no agenda other than helping others -- is most humbling. Again, thanks, CNN, for airing this inspiring tribute to real Heroes."
Holly Robinson Peete  Robinson Peete was a member of the blue-ribbon panel that helped select the top 10 CNN Heroes this year.
"I look so forward to attending every year," she said.
"Heroes has so much heart. Being on the blue-ribbon judges panel again, I got a chance to really know so much about each Hero. And then I get star-struck when I finally get to see them in person.
"Every year, Heroes is just food for your soul. But this year, cold opening the show with the Chilean miners? What a way to set the tone. The room was indescribable."
Sugarland Jennifer Nettles and Kristian Bush, also known as the country music duo Sugarland, performed "Stand Up" at this year's show. The song is from their album "The Incredible Machine," which made its debut in October.
"In a time where the news can feel only negative, it is refreshing and realistic to celebrate these wonderful people and the kindness they are bestowing on the world," Nettles said. "Now, more than ever, we need the message that the show Heroes shares.
"Performing on the show was such a beautiful moment of communion with the audience. I can only hope that the audience at home is inspired to stand up and step toward helping those in need. The world may never be perfect, but it can always be better. Heroes shows how these people do make it better. I want to be a part of that."
Bush said: "Being a part of this show is a true honor. Hearing the stories of these Heroes -- and how their choices change so many lives on a daily basis -- humbles me. They give me faith that humans on earth do have within them the goodness and strength to stand up and change the things that are wrong and make them better."
LL Cool J  Actor and rap pioneer LL Cool J presented a CNN Heroes award this year to Linda Fondren, who has helped residents of her Mississippi town lose nearly 15,000 pounds.
"The CNN Heroes show was one of the most amazing experiences I've ever had," he said. "Everyday people doing extraordinary things for those in need. They aren't just CNN Heroes, they are CNN Superheroes!"
Common and Melanie Fiona Along with John Legend, Common and Fiona performed "Wake Up Everybody" at this year's show.
"When I initially arrived to the event, I just did not know it was going to be that special," Common said. "But as soon as I stepped out on that red carpet and began to hear some of the stories about human beings around the world, I began to realize that this event could be actually life-fulfilling. And it truly was. The stories of the Heroes really inspired my life and made me want to be a better person. To CNN Heroes and all the heroic human beings in the world, I thank you!"
Fiona said: "CNN Heroes is a television event that everyone needs to see. As an artist, I root myself in making music with a message and feel so blessed and honored to be a part of something this special. I hope people are as moved and inspired as I am. Cheers to all the amazing people dedicated to promoting love and positive change in our world."
