(CNN)  -- Ashes hero Alastair Cook has all but given up hope of playing for England in the World Cup in the sub-continent next month.
Despite his run-scoring feats in the recent 3-1 Test series win against Australia, the opener has not featured recently in the England squad for the shorter forms of cricket, including the 50-over per side format used in the World Cup.
Cook told CNN that he is in direct competition for an opening slot with captain Andrew Strauss and does not rate his chances of inclusion very highly when the final 15-man line-up is announced on Wednesday.
"Myself and Straussy do quite a similar role at the top of the order, our styles are very similar. Possibly as he's captain he's going to take a lot to shift," he said.
The 26-year-old amassed 766 runs in the five-Test Ashes series, the second best ever by an England player, and clearly wants to keep up the momentum.
Injured Tendulkar gets World Cup call
"It's a little bit frustrating, especially when you're in a little bit of form, but the selectors have been building towards this for a while now and they're plans and unfortunately I've not been in it," he admitted.
"But cricket's a strange game, sport's a strange game, and you never know," he added.
Whether he gains a place for the World Cup, or gets a call-up later during the tournament as a replacement, Cook's place in cricket history is assured after a hitting double century and two other centuries as England emphatically retained the Ashes Down Under.
"To achieve that, and the manner in which we achieved it, was very special," he said.
"The support we've had from everyone in Australia and back here has just been fantastic," added Cook, who has been awarded the freedom of the City of London in honor of his exploits.
Yet, ironically, the Essex opener's place was under threat for the tour after a sorry run of form in England's summer Tests which left him low on confidence and self-belief.
"It was very low, confidence is only bred by success.
"That was quite a defining moment for me in my career. When I really, really needed a score personally and under pressure from the media and probably thinking I shouldn't play, to be able to deliver, I think that really helped me in Australia."
Cook has scored 16 Test hundreds and 24 other scores of 50 or above in his 65-Test match career and also captained his country for the 2010 series in Bangladesh as Strauss was rested.
